1
The approach of dawn has turned the sky a milky grey-green,
like jade. The sea is a luminous pane of silver. Holding the tiller
of your sailing boat, you keep your gaze fixed on the glittering
constellation known as the Spider. It marks the north, and by
keeping it to port you know you are still on course.
The sun appears in a trembling burst of red fire at the rim of
the world. Slowly the chill of night gives way to brazen warmth.
You lick your parched lips. There is a little water sloshing in the
bottom of the barrel by your feet, but not enough to see you
through another day.
Sealed in a scroll case tucked into your jerkin is the
parchment map your grandfather gave to you on his death-bed.
You remember his stirring tales of far sea voyages, of kingdoms
beyond the western horizon, of sorcerous islands and ruined
palaces filled with treasure. As a child you dreamed of nothing
else but the magical quests that were in store if you too became
an adventurer.
You never expected to die in an open boat before your
adventures even began.
Securing the tiller, you unroll the map and study it again.
You hardly need to. Every detail is etched into your memory by
now. According to your reckoning, you should have reached
the east coast of Harkuna, the great northern continent, days
ago.
A pasty grey blob splatters on to the map. After a moment of
stunned surprise, you look up and curse the seagull circling
directly overhead. Then it strikes you – where there’s a seagull,
there may be land.
You leap to your feet and scan the horizon. Sure enough, a
line of white cliffs lie a league to the north. Have you been
sailing along the coast all this time without realising the
mainland was so close?
Steering towards the cliffs, you feel the boat judder against
rough waves. A howling wind whips plumes of spindrift across
the sea. Breakers pound the high cliffs. The tiller is yanked out
of your hands. The little boat is spun around, out of control, and
goes plunging in towards the coast.
You leap clear at the last second. There is the snap of timber,
the roaring crescendo of the waves – and then silence as you go
under. Striking out wildly, you try to swim clear of the razorsharp rocks. For a while the undertow threatens to drag you
down, then suddenly a wave catches you and flings you
contemptuously up on to the beach.
Battered and bedraggled you lie gasping for breath until you
hear someone walking along the shore towards you. Wary of
danger, you lose no time in getting to your feet. Confronting
you is an old man clad in a dirty loin-cloth. His eyes have a
feverish bright look that is suggestive of either a mystic or a
madman.
Now turn to 20.
2
If you have a coded missive, turn to 676 immediately. If not,
but you have the codeword Deliver, turn to 98 immediately. If
you have neither, read on.
The soldier recognizes you. He bows and says, ‘Welcome,
my lord. I will take you see King Nergan.’
He leads you to Nergan’s mountain stockade, where the
king greets you warmly.

‘Ah, my local champion! It is always a pleasure to see you.
However, I was hoping you had spoken with General Beladai of
the allied army – we need that citadel. Now go. That is a royal
command!’
You leave, climbing down to the foothills of the mountains.
Turn to 474.
3
You have come to the foothills of the Spine of Harkun, in the
north west of Sokara. The view is impressive: a massive wall of
forested mountains, whose rocky, white-flanked peaks soar
skywards into the clouds. These parts of the mountains are
unclimbable but you notice a large cave at the bottom of a
mountain.
Investigate the cave
turn to 665
Go east to the Citadel of Velis Corin
turn to 271
South into the wilderness
turn to 276
4
The priests of Alvir and Valmir are overjoyed that you have
returned the golden net. The high priest rewards you with 100
Shards and a magic weapon, a rune-engraved trident. Note the
weapon, a trident (COMBAT +1), on your Adventure Sheet,
and turn to 220.
5
It is a tough climb upwards but not impossible. If you have some
climbing gear, turn to 652. If not, make a SCOUTING roll at
Difficulty 10.
Successful SCOUTING roll
turn to 652
Failed SCOUTING roll
turn to 529
6
The chest springs open with a click. Inside you find 60 Shards, a
mandolin (CHARISMA +1), and a potion of healing. The
potion can be used once, at any time (even in combat) to restore
5 Stamina points. There is also an ancient religious text about
the gods of the Uttaku, called the scroll of Ebron, which
reveals that one of the gods of the Uttakin is called Ebron, and
that he has fourteen angles.
Note whatever you are taking on your Adventure Sheet, and
turn to 10.
7
Much to your embarrassment, you get lost in the vast forest.
You wander around for days until you finally emerge at the
Bronze Hills. Turn to 110.
8
You step through the archway. Immediately the symbols on the
stone begin to glow with red-hot energy; your hair stands on
end and your body tingles. A crackling nimbus of blue-white
force engulfs you, the sky darkens and thunder and lightning
crash and leap across the heavens. Suddenly, your vision fades,
and everything goes black.
When your sight returns, you find yourself at the gates of a
large city, set on an ochre-coloured river. A vile stink of
brimstone permeates the air. You wrinkle your face up in disgust
and gag involuntarily.
‘Welcome to Yellowport!’ says a passing merchant.
Turn to 10.

2 The War-Torn Kingdom

9
If you have the codeword Altitude, turn to 272 immediately. If
not, read on.
A notice has been pinned up in the foyer. ‘Adventurer priest
wanted. See the Chief Administrator.’
Naturally, you present yourself, and the Chief Administrator,
a grey-whiskered priest of Elnir, takes you into his office. He
shows you a special crystal ball that displays an aerial view of
Marlock City. You notice several strange-looking clouds
hanging over the city. They are shaped like gigantic demons
reaching down to claw at the city laid out below them.
‘The crystal ball shows things as they are in the spirit world,’
explains the priest. ‘These storm demons cannot be seen under
normal circumstances, but they are there, almost ready to
destroy the city.’
He goes on to tell you that Sul Veneris, the divine Lord of
Thunder is one of the sons of Elnir, the Sky God, chief among
the gods. He is responsible for keeping the storm demons under
control, and thunder is thought to be the sound of Sul Veneris
smiting the demons in his wrath.
‘Unfortunately, the storm demons have found a way to put
Sul Veneris into an enchanted sleep. He lies at the very top of
Devil’s Peak, a single spire of volcanic rock, reaching up into the
clouds. The peak lies north of Marlock City and the Curstmoor.
We need an enterprising priest to get to the top of the peak and
free Sul Veneris from his sleep. But I must warn you that several
priests have already tried, and we never saw them again.’
If you take up the quest, record the codeword Altitude. Turn
to 100.
10
If you have the codeword Assassin, turn to 50 immediately. If
not, read on.
If you have just arrived in Yellowport, tick the first empty
box above (use a pencil). The boxes are a record of the number
of times you have visited the city. If this is your fourth visit, turn
to 273. If you have visited the city fewer than or more than four
times, read on.
Yellowport is the second largest city in Sokara. It is mainly a
trading town, and is known for its exotic goods from distant
Ankon-Konu, way to the south.
The Stinking River brings rich deposits of sulphur from the
Lake of the Sea Dragon down to the town, where it is extracted
and stored in the large waterfront warehouses run by the
merchants’ guild. From here, the mineral is exported all over
Harkuna. Unfortunately, all that sulphur has its drawbacks. The
stink is abominable, and much of the city has a yellowish hue.
The river is so full of sulphur that it is virtually useless as a source
of food or of drinking water. However, the demand for sulphur,
especially from the sorcerous guilds, is great.
Politically, much has changed in the past few years. The old
and corrupt king of Sokara, Corin VII, has been deposed and
executed in a military coup. General Grieve Marlock and the
army now control Sokara. The old Council of Yellowport has
been ‘indefinitely dissolved’ and a provost marshal, Marloes
Marlock, the general’s brother, appointed as military governor of
the town.
You can buy a town house in Yellowport for 200 Shards.
Owning a house gives you a place to rest, and to store

equipment. If you buy one, tick the box by the town house
option and cross off 200 Shards from your Adventure Sheet.
To leave Yellowport by sea, buy or sell ships and cargo, go
to the harbourmaster.
If you have the codeword Artefact and the Book of the
Seven Sages, you can turn to 40.
Choose from the following options:
Seek an audience with the provost marshal
turn to 523
Visit the market
turn to 30
Visit the harbourmaster
turn to 555
Go the merchants’ guild
turn to 405
Explore the city by day
turn to 302
Explore the city by night
turn to 442
Visit your town house ! (if box ticked)
turn to 300
Visit the Gold Dust Tavern
turn to 506
Visit the temple of Maka
turn to 141
Visit the temple of Elnir
turn to 316
Visit the temple of Alvir and Valmir
turn to 220
Visit the temple of Tyrnai
turn to 526
Travel north-east towards Venefax
turn to 621
Head north-west to Trefoille
turn to 233
Follow the Stinking River north
turn to 82
Strike out north-west, across country
turn to 558
11
A narrow path leads up the hill, the top of which is crowned
with a circle of large obsidian standing stones, hewn from solid
rock. Despite the bitter wind that blows across these hills, the
stones are unweathered and seem but newly lain. They form
three archways, each carved with mystic symbols and runes of
power. Turn to 65.
12
You tell them a story of tragic love between a merman and a
human princess. The mer-folk are moved to shed briny tears,
and one of them plants a languorous kiss on your lips.
You find that you can indeed breathe underwater now. The
mer-folk lead you into the depths, where they swim playfully
around you.
Suddenly, a hideous form looms out of the murk. It is like a
giant squid, but it carries a spear in one of its many tentacles and
wears rudimentary armour. Great black eyes shine with an
implacable alien intelligence. The mer-folk dart away in fright,
leaving you alone with the creature.
If you have the codeword Anchor, turn to 116. Otherwise,
turn to 238.
13
‘The Violet Ocean’s a dangerous place, Cap’n’, says the first
mate. ‘The crew probably won’t follow you there if they don’t
think you’re good enough!’
If your Rank is 4 or more, turn to paragraph 55 in Over the
Blood-Dark Sea. If your Rank is less than 4, the first mate advises
you against the ocean journey. If you take his advice, turn back
to 507.
If you insist on making the trip, you need to make a
CHARISMA roll at Difficulty 12 to convince the crew to follow
you. If you succeed, turn to paragraph 55 in Over the Blood-Dark
Sea. Otherwise, turn back to 507.

The War-Torn Kingdom 3
14
Someone stabs you in the back. Lose 5 Stamina points. If you
still live, you spin around just as a beefy, disreputable-looking
thug comes for you again with a long dagger.
‘Get the snooping swine!’ yells the man with the eyepatch.
You must fight.
Thug, COMBAT 3, Defence 6, Stamina 13
If you lose, you are dead, unless you have a resurrection deal. If
you win, turn to 476.
15
Three drunken army officers accost you on the street. If you
have the title Protector of Sokara, turn to 542 immediately. If
not, read on.
‘Sho, what have we... hic... here,’ sneers one of them
drunkenly.
‘Out of the way, you stinking dog!’ says another, shoving
you in the chest.
Step out of the way
turn to 44
Return the insult
turn to 266
16
If there is a tick in the box, turn to 251 immediately. If not, put
a tick there now and read on.
If you have the codeword Avenge, turn to 648 immediately.
Otherwise read on.
You remain quiet as a mouse, behind a pile of coins. After a
long wait, the sea dragon slithers into the water, and swims out
on some errand. You have some time to loot the hoard. You
may choose up to three of the following treasures:
Enchanted sword (COMBAT +3)
Plate armour (Defence +5)
Ebony wand (MAGIC +2)
500 Shards
Magic mandolin (CHARISMA +2)
Gold compass (SCOUTING +2)
Magic lockpicks (THIEVERY +2)
Silver holy symbol (SANCTITY +2)
After you have taken the third treasure, you hear the sea dragon
returning. Quickly you climb up through the hole in the roof
on to an island in the middle of the lake. From there you
manage to get a lift on a passing boat, and make it safely to
Cadmium village. Turn to 135.
17
The horse and you hit the wall. There is a bright flash, and you
find you have passed straight through into the hill – it must be a
faery mound!
The horse you are riding abruptly changes shape in a puff of
smoke. You find yourself on the back of a little, knobblylimbed, white-faced goblin, who promptly collapses under your
weight.
You are in a cavern, lit by mouse-sized faery folk, who flit
about in the air blazing like fireflies. The other horses have also
turned into goblins, elves and faeries of all shapes and sizes.
‘What have we here?,’ whispers a pale, dark-eyed elf woman,
dressed in silvery cobwebs and wearing a gold crown.
‘An overweight mortal sitting on poor old Gobrash, your
majesty!’ groans the goblin you are sitting on.
You realize you are in great danger here – there’s no telling
what the faery folk will do to you. The queen signals to her

people and they close in around you ominously. Make a
SANCTITY roll at Difficulty 9.
Successful SANCTITY roll
turn to 626
turn to 268
Failed SANCTITY roll
18
You spin them a tale about how your poor brother, a mercenary
in Grieve Marlock’s personal guard, lost his legs in the fight to
overthrow the old king, and that you have spent all your money
on looking after him. Several of the militia are brought to tears
by your eloquent speech – they end up having a whip-round
among themselves for your brother, and they give you 15
Shards! Chuckling to yourself, you return to the city centre.
Turn to 10.
19
Put a tick in an empty box. If all three boxes are now ticked,
gain the codeword Anvil.
The Dragon Knights are impressed with your combat skills.
Your opponent comes round, ruefully rubbing his neck.
Grudgingly, he admits to your superior skill and hands you his
weapon and armour. You get an ordinary sword and a suit of
heavy plate (Defence +6). You take your leave, turn to 276.
20
‘Well, well, well, what have we here, friends?’ asks the old man.
He seems to be talking to someone next to him, although you
are certain he is alone. ‘Looks like a washed up adventurer to
me!’ he says in answer to his own question, ‘all wet and out of
luck.’
He carries on having a conversation – a conversation that
quickly turns into a heated debate. He is clearly quite mad.
‘Excuse me, umm, EXCUSE ME!,’ you shout above the
hubbub in an attempt to grab the old man’s attention. He stops
and stares at you.
‘Is this the Isle of the Druids?’ you ask impatiently.
‘Indeed it is,’ says the old man, ‘I see that you are from a far
land so it is up to me to welcome you to Harkuna. But I think
you may have much to do here as it is written in the stars that
someone like you would come. Your destiny awaits you! Follow
me, young adventurer.’
The old man turns smartly about and begins walking up a
path towards some hills. You can just see some sort of
monolithic stone structure atop one of them.
‘Come on, come one, I’ll show you the Gates of the World,’
the old man babbles.
Follow him
turn to 192
Explore the coast
turn to 128
Head into the nearby forest
turn to 257
21
While making your way through the back streets of the poor
quarter you are set upon a knife-wielding thug, who is intent of
relieving you of your purse.
If you don’t want to fight him, you can try a CHARISMA roll
at a Difficulty of 8 to try to talk your way out of this unpleasant
situation. If you succeed, the thug leaves, confused by your
rhetoric (turn to 10 and choose again.) Otherwise, you must
fight him.
Thug, COMBAT 4, Defence 7, Stamina 6

4 The War-Torn Kingdom
If you defeat him, you find 15 Shards on his body. If you are
defeated, you are stunned into unconsciousness. You come
round with 1 Stamina point, and he has robbed you of 50 Shards
(or of all your money if you have less than 50 Shards). Turn to
10.
22
You reach down and deftly pull out the ceramic plug. A gush of
foul-smelling emerald green liquid spills on to the floor, and the
golem twitches once before collapsing. The other golem is
coming to life, however. You’ll have to be quick to get it in
time!
Make a COMBAT roll at Difficulty 9.
turn to 539
Successful COMBAT roll
Failed COMBAT roll
turn to 647
23
As you stride forward, they look up with expressions of
luminous rage.
‘Get you back, mortal,’ warns one, ‘or I’ll touch you with
my grave-cold hands and then it’ll be your dying day!’
Attack them
turn to 479
Call on your god to banish them
turn to 520
24
You will need to subdue the king and his henchmen with a
spell.
Make a MAGIC roll at Difficulty 12.
turn to 644
Successful MAGIC roll
Failed MAGIC roll
turn to 208
25
Captain Vorkung is impressed with your claims of loyalty to the
rightful king. He decides you might be useful to their cause, and
you are led, blindfolded, through a secret pass to a mountain
stockade.
King Nergan gives you an audience in a makeshift throne
room. He is a young, and handsome man, who seems
committed to his country. He leads you aside, into a private
chamber.
‘I have need of one such as you,’ he says. ‘Yellowport groans
under the yoke of Governor Marloes Marlock, the brother of
General Grieve Marlock. If you can get into the palace at
Yellowport and assassinate Marloes, I will be eternally grateful.’
If you have the codeword Artery, turn to 399 immediately.
Otherwise, if you wish to accept the mission to kill the
Governor of Yellowport, record the codeword Ambuscade.
When you are ready, the King wishes you well, and you are
lead out of the stockade, and back down to the foothills of the
Coldbleak Mountains. Turn to 474.
26
You set sail for Dweomer. The journey takes a few days but,
amazingly, it is uneventful. The captain can’t believe his luck, as
you disembark at Dweomer harbour, on the Sorcerers’ Isle.
Turn to paragraph 100 in Over the Blood-Dark Sea.
27
Either you are recklessly brave, or very foolish to visit the palace
where you assassinated the governor, Provost Marshal Royzer

has established new security procedures, and it is impossible for
you to see him. Return to 10.
28
You jump into the air, and hit the ground rolling. You come
up, bruised but alive, in time to see the horses ride straight into
the rocky wall of a low hill! To your amazement, they pass
straight through the rock and disappear. Silence falls across the
land like a blanket. There is no sign of them, not even tracks.
You camp for the night and the next day set off once more.
North across country
turn to 560
East to the road
turn to 588
To Trefoille
turn to 250
To Marlock City
turn to 100
West towards the River Grimm
turn to 99
29
Your ship is sailing in the coastal waters beside Yellowport.
There are a number of other ships, mostly merchantmen, but
there are also a few warships of the Sokaran Imperial Navy.
‘At least we won’t be plagued by pirates with the navy
around,’ says the first mate.
Roll two dice:
Score 2-4
Storm
turn to 613
Score 5-9
An uneventful voyage
turn to 439
Score 10-12 Sokaran war galley
turn to 165
30
The market is large and busy. At the corner of Brimstone Plaza,
gigantic braziers burn sweet-smelling incense in an attempt to
overpower the rotten-egg smell that permeates the whole city.
There are many stalls and goods to chose from. You may buy
any of the items listed, as long as you have the money and the
space to carry it. You may also sell any items you own that are
listed below, for the price stated – if you do, don’t forget to
cross them off your Adventure Sheet.
Items with no purchase price are not available locally.
Armour
Leather (Defence +1)
Ring mail (Defence +2)
Chain mail (Defence +3)
Splint armour (Defence +4)
Plate armour (Defence +5)
Heavy plate (Defence +6)

To buy
To sell
50 Shards
45 Shards
100 Shards
90 Shards
200 Shards 180 Shards
– 360 Shards
– 720 Shards
– 1440 Shards

Weapons (sword, axe, etc)
Without COMBAT bonus
COMBAT bonus +1
COMBAT bonus +2
COMBAT bonus +3

To buy
50 Shards
250 Shards
–
–

Magical Equipment
Amber wand (MAGIC +1)
Ebony wand (MAGIC +2)
Cobalt wand (MAGIC +3)

To buy
To sell
500 Shards 400 Shards
– 800 Shards
– 1600 Shards

Other items
Mandolin (CHARISMA +1)
Lockpicks (THIEVERY +1)
Holy symbol (SANCTITY +1)

To buy
300 Shards
300 Shards
200 Shards

To sell
40 Shards
200 Shards
400 Shards
800 Shards

To sell
270 Shards
270 Shards
100 Shards

The War-Torn Kingdom 5
Compass (SCOUTING +1)
Rope
Lantern
Climbing gear
Bag of pearls
Rat poison
Silver nugget

500 Shards
50 Shards
100 Shards
100 Shards
–
60 Shards
–

450 Shards
45 Shards
90 Shards
90 Shards
100 Shards
50 Shards
200 Shards

One trader is offering a treasure map for sale at 200 Shards,
and will buy any old treasure map for 150 Shards. If you buy
the map, note this paragraph number (30) for reference and turn
to 200.
If you wish to buy cargo for a ship, you need to visit the
warehouses at the harbourmaster. When you are ready to return
to the city centre, turn to 10.
31
A dark emptiness surrounds you. Then, as if in your sleep, you
see a tiny glimmer of light off in the distance. Suddenly you
wake up, and find yourself coughing and spluttering, up to your
neck in water. You look around – you are floundering in the
holy waters of Blessed Springs.
Standing at the side of the pool is a tall, slim, moustached
man who says ‘I am Aklar the Bold. I found you as bottled dust
in the lair of Vayss the Sea Dragon. By sprinkling your ashes into
the holy waters, I have brought you back to life. I think a
reward is in order, don’t you?’
You explain that you have nothing to give. Aklar frowns in
annoyance: ‘Blast, I knew I should have taken one of the other
bottles! Well, you’ll just have to owe me a favour. A big
favour.’.
You can hardly refuse. Record the codeword Aklar.
‘Well, I must be about my business – we shall meet again,
count on it.’ With that he leaves.
You stagger out of the pool. Turn to 510.
32
You head across the hot, dusty and sparsely vegetated land.
Vultures circle overhead – presumably they think you’re going
to die. You wander on, until you come to a ridge. Down
below, in a shallow valley, is a great mound of earth. Scorpion
men crawl in and out of the many burrows that riddle the earth.
The number of scorpion men in the valley makes your heart
quail; unless you have the codeword Artefact, the place is too
deadly to enter. If you have the codeword Artefact, turn to 406.
Otherwise, turn to 492.
33
Resurrection costs 200 Shards if you are an initiate, and 800
Shards if not. Once you have arranged for resurrection you need
not fear death, as you will be magically restored to life here at
the temple. To arrange resurrection, pay the fee and write
‘Temple of Tyrnai, The War-Torn Kingdom 640’ in the
Resurrection box on your Adventure Sheet. If you are later
killed, turn to 640 in The War-Torn Kingdom.
You can have only one resurrection arranged at any one
time. If you arrange another resurrection later at a different
temple, the original one is cancelled. Cross it off your Adventure
Sheet. You do not get a refund.
When you are finished here, turn to 282.

34
You make it only 50 feet up the sheer rockface before you lose
your footing and fall to the ground. Lose 4 Stamina points. If
you still live, turn to 658 where you can try again, if you like.
35
You come to the top of a windswept cliff. An ancient pillar of
jumbled rock, pitted and weatherbeaten, stands at the cliff’s
edge, like a broken finger pointing at the sky. Seagulls sing their
song of desolation in the air.
Judging by the runes etched into the rock, the tor dates back
to the time of the Shadar, a race that ruled Harkuna so long ago,
they are lost in myth and legend.
Examine the runes
turn to 515
Go down to the beach
turn to 97
Take the road to Trefoille
turn to 602
Take the road to Marlock City
turn to 166
36
Soon you realize you are completely lost in this strange, magical
forest. You wander around for days, barely able to find enough
food and water. Lose 4 Stamina points. If you still live, you
eventually stagger out of the forest to the coast. Turn to 128.
37
Your men have been fishing with a net. This time, however,
they have caught a large shark. Afterwards, when it has been cut
open, you find the remains of some poor sailor. Inside his leather
pouch, you find a bag of pearls, which you can take if you
wish. Turn to 507.
38
Heavy black clouds race towards you across the sky, whipping
the waves into a frenzy. The crew mutter among themselves
fearfully. If you have the blessing of Alvir and Valmir, which
confers Safety from Storms, you can ignore the storm. Cross off
the blessing and turn to 209.
Otherwise the storm hits with full fury. Roll one die if your
ship is a barque, two dice if it is a brigantine, or three dice if a
galleon. Add one to the roll if the crew’s quality is good; add 2 if
it is excellent.
Score 1-3
Ship sinks
turn to 325
Score 4-5
The mast splits
turn to 397
Score 6-20 You weather the storm
turn to 209
39
You and some of your crew clamber aboard the wreck. You
find some dead sailors amid the wreckage. Their bodies are
curiously bloated. Make a SCOUTING roll at Difficulty 9.
Successful SCOUTING roll
turn to 194
Failed SCOUTING roll
turn to 465
40
You take the Book of the Seven Sages to Pyletes the Sage at
the Gold Dust Tavern. He thanks you effusively for bringing it
to him. Your reward is secret learning from the temple of
Molhern, god of knowledge. Add 1 to the ability of your
choice. Also gain the title Illuminate of Molhern – write this in
the Titles and Honours box on your Adventure Sheet. Lose the
codeword Artefact and cross off the Book of the Seven Sages.
Turn to 10.

6 The War-Torn Kingdom

41
The inside of the dome is lit with an eerie yellowish glow that
comes from the sea-moss that carpets the ceiling. At the far end,
a grotto in the wall contains an idol made from sea-shells and
coral, presumably of Oannes, the god of the repulsive ones. At
its feet lies the golden net of Alvir and Valmir, the object of
your quest. Between you and it swim several of the giant squidcreatures, carrying out various undersea chores.
Swim back to the Shadar Tor
turn to 35
Fight your way to the golden net
turn to 121
Trust your magical prowess
turn to 592
Rack your memory for a solution
turn to 487
42
Two hulking shapes appear out of the shadows as if from
nowhere. They are hideous creatures – manlike, standing on
two legs, but with the tail and hairy features of a gigantic rat.
Their yellowing teeth snap at you as they lunge for you; the
ratmen also wield wicked-looking shortswords in their hands.
‘Gut the human!’ yells one of them in a bestial voice.
You must fight them, both at once, as if they were one
opponent. If you have some rat poison, you can add 3 to your
dice rolls. Cross the rat poison off the Adventure Sheet if you
use it.
Two Ratmen, COMBAT 6, Defence 9, Stamina 9
If you win, turn to 423. If you lose, turn to 308.
43
You must fight. Luckily, your magic weapon will be effective.
Tomb Guardian, COMBAT 6, Defence 8, Stamina 12
If you win, turn to 490. If you lose, you are dead, unless you
have a resurrection deal.
44
You decide that discretion would be the better part of valour in
this case, and step aside. The officers laugh contemptuously, and
swagger past. Nothing else happens tonight. Turn to 100.
45
The little girl runs off before you can talk to her. You thread
your way through the pitted tombstones and brooding crypts of
the cemetery, under a pale moon that bathes the graveyard in a
sickly, pallid light.
Suddenly, a foul stench fills your nostrils, and a figure rises
up out of the shadows! Yellow eyes glow with feral blood-lust,
and the creature sinks its black teeth into your arm before you
can react. Lose 4 Stamina.
If you still live, you have been infected. Not that you have a
Disease (Ghoulbite). Until you find a cure, you must subtract
one from your SANCTITY, COMBAT, and CHARISMA abilities
(no ability can drop below one). The ghoul, a rotting, walking
corpse, lunges for you again.
Fight it
turn to 617
Invoke the power of the gods
turn to 144
Use salt and iron filings, if you have any
turn to 303
46
Lose the codewords Almanac, Brush and Eldritch if you have
them.

You can invest money in multiples of 100 Shards. The guild
will buy and sell commodities on your behalf using this money
until you return to collect it. ‘Don’t forget that you can lose
money as well,’ mutters a sullen merchant.
Write the sum you are investing in the box here – or
withdraw a sum invested previously. Then turn to 405.
Money invested

47
The Forest of Larun is a mighty swathe of densely packed trees,
a slice of primordial nature in the middle of busy, industrious
Sokara.
Venture deeper into the forest
turn to 596
North to the Bronze Hills
turn to 110
West to the River Grimm
turn to 333
South into the countryside
turn to 560
East to the road
turn to 387
48
The warden is in charge of security. ‘We have had an
unfortunate, umm… accident,’ he says worriedly. ‘In the crypt
below the temple we sometimes experiment with the corpses of
the dead – you know, the occasional zombie, part of the rituals
in honour of the particular aspect of Nagil we revere here. It
seems a ghoul has escaped from these pits, and is terrorizing the
city at night. We’d rather someone like you sorted the problem
out before the city militia got to hear of it. Destroy it and bring
me the ghoul’s head.’
If you want to take up the mission, record the codeword
Ague. ‘Search for it at night!’ says the warden as you leave. Turn
to 100.
49
Not taking any chances, you charge the soldier, yelling a warcry.
He starts back in astonishment. Just then, several archers pop up
from behind the rocks above, and let loose a volley of arrows.
One takes you in the leg. Lose 3 Stamina points.
If you still live, you fall to one knee, and the soldier melts
away into the rocks. Alone, and wounded in the leg, you cannot
climb upwards. You have to go back down though the descent
will be difficult with a dodgy leg. Roll a die, adding 1 if you
have some climbing gear.
Score 1-3
turn to 529
Score 4-6
turn to 474
50
The new provost marshal of Yellowport is Royzer – he used to
be Marloes Marlock’s second in command. Since the
assassination of the old provost, Royzer has ruled the city with
an iron hand – patrols are frequent and spies are everywhere.
You will have to be careful not to get yourself recognised. Turn
back to 10 and choose an option from the list there.
51
The war galley puts alongside, and grappling hooks fly through
the air, fastening your ships together. The captain leaps across
and his men swarm on to your ship. A battle ensues. Roll three
dice if you are a Warrior, or two dice if you belong to any other

The War-Torn Kingdom 7
profession. Add your Rank to this roll. Then, if your crew is
poor quality, subtract 2 from the total. If the crew quality is
good, add 2. If the crew quality is excellent, add 3.
Score 0-4
Calamity; you are killed
turn to 680
Score 5-9
Crushing defeat;
lose 1-6 Stamina
turn to 153
Score 10-13 A draw
turn to 242
Score 14+
Outright victory
turn to 62
52
If you are an initiate it costs only 10 Shards to purchase Lacuna’s
blessing. A non-initiate must pay 25 Shards. Cross off the money
and mark SCOUTING in the Blessings box on your Adventure
Sheet.
The blessing works by allowing you to try again when you
fail a SCOUTING roll. It is good for only one reroll. When you
use the blessing, cross it off your Adventure Sheet. You can only
have one SCOUTING blessing at any one time. Once it is used
up, you can return to any branch of the Temple of Lacuna to
buy a new one.
When you are finished here, turn to 544.
53
The creature bursts open in death, spilling a black inky cloud
into the water. The sac in which this ink is kept falls free from
its body. You can take the ink sac if you wish – note it on your
Adventure Sheet. You also find coral jewellery worth about 15
Shards. Nothing else occurs during your foray into the depths,
so you return to land. You climb back up the path that leads to
the clifftop tor without incident.
Take the road to Trefoille
turn to 602
Take the road to Marlock City
turn to 166
54
You drive back the storm demons long enough for you to work
free one of the stakes that is holding Sul Veneris down. Turn to
365.
55
You remember that this is a trap set up by the cannibal cultists of
Badogor. While one pretends to be hurt, two other skulk in the
shadows, waiting to ambush the curious. Forewarned you are
able to take them by surprise. You cut one down in seconds and
the figure on the ground runs off with a shriek of terror. The
third cultist, however, turns to fight you.
Cultist, COMBAT 3, Defence 5, Stamina 7
If you win, you find a bag of pearls on his body. Turn to 10.
56
A strange-looking craft is bobbing in the water. It is shaped like
a cone, floating on its base, and as you draw nearer, you realize
it is made entirely of metal! Its sail, a huge piece of cloth, seems
to have collapsed and is spread out around it, on the surface of
the sea. Great blue and white letters, in some foreign script, are
painted on its side. You notice an opening on one side.
Enter the strange craft
turn to 496
Leave it and sail on
turn to 85
57
You manage to lose them amid the backstreets of Yellowport.
Once the heat is off, you return to the city centre. Turn to 10.

58
He doesn’t notice you hiding in the shadowy doorway of a
nearby derelict house. As he passes, you step out and attack,
taking him completely by surprise. He goes down with your first
blow. Searching him, you find 25 Shards, which you can take if
you wish. Then you flip up his eyepatch. Nestling in the eye
socket is a sparkling gem, a flame opal. You pluck it free. Note
the flame opal eye on your Adventure Sheet and delete the
codeword Barnacle. Quickly, you haul the body into the shadows
and head for the city centre. Turn to 400.
59
Your deft fingers find a false spine of carved wood among the
titles in the bookcase. Pressing it, you hear a click and the
bookcase swings out from the wall. Beyond lies a hidden room
where you find a verdigris key. Note this on your Adventure
Sheet if you decide to take it.
Leave at once
turn to 10
Go upstairs to find Lauria
turn to 386
Wait for her to return
turn to 534
60
You are crossing the wild country of north-east Sokara. Roll
one die.
Score 1 or 2 Caught in an animal trap! Lose 2 Stamina
Score 3 or 4 Nothing happens
Score 5 or 6 Attacked by a wolf, and must fight.
Wolf, COMBAT 3, Defence 5, Stamina 7.
If you win, you get a wolf pelt.
When you are ready, you can go:
North
turn to 518
South
turn to 458
West
turn to 201
61
‘Wait,’ you cry, ‘I have seen the light! I wish to join your cult!’
‘What!’ yells the chef. Then his shoulders sag in resignation.
‘We cannot refuse a new member,’ says the leader with
obvious disappointment. ‘And we cannot eat our own people,’
he adds sadly.
A short ceremony later – fortunately, the initiation does not
involve any cannibalistic rites – and you are a full member of the
Cult of Badogor. Write Unspeakable Cultist in the Titles and
Honours box on your Adventure Sheet. You lose 1 point of
SANCTITY permanently for joining such a vile cult.
You take your leave, and they wish you well, all smiles and
friendship.
‘Remember, never say his name! And don’t forget to bring
us new recruits,’ says the leader. ‘And some people for dinner!’
adds the chef.
Hastily, you head for the city centre. Turn to 10.
62
The Sokarans surrender. Their captain has been killed in the
battle, and his marines have had the fight knocked out of them.
The war galley isn’t carrying any cargo, but you find an
officer’s pass on the body of the captain, and a chest in his
cabin, which contains 150 Shards. You have to hand out 50
Shards to your crew, but you can add 100 Shards to your

8 The War-Torn Kingdom
Adventure Sheet. You leave the galley to limp back to
Yellowport while you sail on. Turn to 439.
63
If you have the codeword Attar, turn to 578 immediately. If not,
read on.
A small boy runs up to you, saying ‘Help us, help us! The
Man-eating Blood-Thursday Gob-gobbler has got my little
sister!’
His mother, a flaxen-haired beauty, comes up behind him.
‘Surely, you mean blood-thirsty not Thursday,’ you ask.
‘Oh no,’ replies the young mother, ‘the Man-eating BloodThursday Gob-gobbler is so named because it hunts only on
Thursdays!’
The boy’s name is Mikail, and his mother is Lynn. Her
husband is away in the army, and her young daughter, Haylie,
was taken by the beast last Thursday. Apparently, several people
have disappeared, never to be seen again.
‘Please, help us!’ plead the villagers.
Help them
turn to 600
Refuse to help
turn to 427
64
Your amateurish tinkering sets the trap off, and the chest
explodes! You take the full force of the blast – lose 5 Stamina
points. If you are still alive, you also find that the contents of the
chest have been vaporized – except for a sturdy metal scroll case,
containing a piece of ancient religious text about the gods of
Uttaku. You discover from the scroll that one of the gods of the
Uttakin is called Ebron, and that he has fourteen angles. Note
the scroll of Ebron on your Adventure Sheet if you wish to
take it. Turn to 10.
65
There are three stone gates engraved with ancient runes. Each
gate is marked with a name – Yellowport, Marlock City, and
Wishport. From here, you can see the coast and the whole
island, which is heavily forested.
Explore the coastline
turn to 128
Head into the forest
turn to 257
Step through the Yellowport arch
turn to 8
Step through the Marlock City arch
turn to 180
Step through the Wishport arch
turn to 330
66
You stand your ground. The ghostly horses stream past you on
either side, neighing wildly at the sky. Nimbly, you leap at one,
and manage to wrap your arms around its neck, and swing on to
its back. The horse feels quite solid, but appears to be a
luminous, pale-green colour. You look up through a cloud of
sparks emanating from the horse’s mane just in time to see a
rocky wall of a low hill looming up out of the evening mist.
Your horse is galloping full tilt right into it!
Hold on
turn to 17
Leap off
turn to 28
67
Your ship is thrown about like flotsam and jetsam. When the
storm subsides, you take stock. Much has been swept overboard
– you lose 1 Cargo Unit, if you had any, of your choice. Also,

the ship has been swept way off course and the mate has no idea
where you are. ‘We’re lost at sea, Cap’n!’ he moans.
Turn to 90.
68
To renounce the worship of Alvir and Valmir, you must pay 30
Shards in compensation to the priesthood.
The priest simply points to a ship limping into harbour – its
shattered masts, torn sails and battered hull mute testimony to its
storm-tossed voyage.
‘The captain did not revere the Twin Gods,’ whispers the
coral-jewelled priest darkly.
Do you want to change your mind? If you are determined to
renounce your faith, pay the 30 Shards and delete Alvir and
Valmir from the God box on your Adventure Sheet.
Turn to 154.
69
To renounce the worship of Tyrnai, you must pay 50 Shards to
the warrior priests, and suffer the Ceremony of the Wrathful
Blow. A priest will strike you once – it is better to be struck by a
priest than by Tyrnai himself!
If you are determined to renounce your initiate status, pay
the 50 Shards, delete Tyrnai from the God box on your
Adventure Sheet. The High Priest smashes you across the jaw,
saying ‘I’m doing you a favour – believe me!’ Lose 1 Stamina
point. If you earlier arranged a resurrection here, it is cancelled
with no refund.
When you are finished, turn to 526.
70
Your ship is thrown about like flotsam and jetsam. When the
storm subsides, you take stock. Much has been swept overboard
– you lose 1 Cargo Unit, if you had any, of your choice. Also,
the ship has been swept way off course and the mate has no idea
where you are. ‘We’re lost at sea, Cap’n!’ he moans.
Turn to 90.
71
If you have the codeword Ague, turn to 517 immediately. If not,
read on.
Nagil is the Lord of the Lands of the Dead, and his temple in
Marlock City is covered in friezes and gargoyles of ornate
design, depicting the souls of the dead on their journey to the
underworld. Inside, it is cool and dark, hung with black velvet
drapes.
A scroll tacked to the wall reads: ‘Wanted: person of unusual
resourcefulness. See temple warden.’
Become an initiate
turn to 409
Renounce worship
turn to 187
Make resurrection arrangements
turn to 478
Visit the warden
turn to 48
Leave the temple
turn to 100
72
You manage to shrug off the effects of the gas.
Attack the beast
Run off

turn to 371
turn to 527

The War-Torn Kingdom 9
73
If you are an initiate it costs only 10 Shards to purchase Elnir’s
blessing. A non-initiate must pay 25 Shards. Cross off the money
and mark CHARISMA in the Blessings box on your Adventure
Sheet.
The blessing works by allowing you to try again when you
make a failed CHARISMA roll. It is only good for one reroll.
When you use the blessing, cross it off your Adventure Sheet.
You can have only one CHARISMA blessing at any one time.
Once it is used up, you can return to any branch of the temple
of Elnir to buy a new one.
When you are finished here, turn to 568.
74
A fisherman will take you all the way to Yellowport for 15
Shards. Cross the money of your Adventure Sheet. Amazingly,
despite the apparent fragility of the small vessel, you arrive
without incident. Turn to 10.
75
The high priest takes you to a private chamber.
‘You may be just what the temple needs,’ he says, ‘a good,
old-fashioned thief! There is a suit of armour made entirely of
gold – ceremonial only of course. Nevertheless, we would like
to, er, have it donated to us.’
‘I see,’ you reply, ‘and where is the armour?’
‘Well that’s the tricky part – it’s in the Temple of Tyrnai, in
Caran Baru. In fact, it’s worn by the idol of Tyrnai himself in
the temple! Can you bring us the gold chain mail of Tyrnai? In
return, we will instruct you in the roguish arts.’
If you want to take up the mission for the Temple of Sig,
record the codeword Armour. Turn to 235.
76
You are an accomplished street brawler, and after only a few
minutes’ furious fighting, the three officers are laid out
unconscious in the street. Several people gathered to watch the
brawl – most of them give a cheer at your performance. General
Marlock’s troops have not endeared themselves to the
population.
You find about 25 Shards on the officers’ bodies and an
officer’s pass. Take whatever you require and turn to 100.
77
‘It is fortunate we have a Chosen One of Maka at this temple,’
says the high priestess. ‘Only the Chosen Ones have the
goddess-given powers to cure the afflicted!’
It costs 75 Shards – only 30 if you are an initiate of Maka –
to be cured of a poison or a disease. Make any necessary
payment and delete the disease or poison, and its effects, from
your Adventure Sheet. Turn to 141.
78
Make a SCOUTING roll at Difficulty 10.
Successful SCOUTING roll
Failed SCOUTING roll

turn to 524
turn to 415

79
Make a SCOUTING roll at Difficulty 14, as you try to lose them
in the tunnels. It is hard because they know the layout better
than you do.

Successful SCOUTING roll
Failed SCOUTING roll

turn to 224
turn to 381

80
You grab the woman’s wrist a split-second before she can cut
the strings of your money pouch. You drag her around to face
you, but she meets your outraged scowl with a swashbuckling
grin.
‘You’ve got good reflexes,’ she says. ‘Most of the street scum
around here are too drink-sodden or dimwitted to notice the
loss of a few Shards. Want to earn some real money?’
Accept her offer
turn to 425
Refuse and leave
turn to 10
81
This could be a tough fight.
Golem, COMBAT 5, Defence 10, Stamina 10
If you win, turn to 94. If you lose, turn to 488.
82
You are following the course of the Stinking River – and it
certainly does stink, laden with sulphur as it is. Roll a die.
Score 1 or 2 Stung by a large golden insect. You are
poisoned (COMBAT –1 until you find a
cure)
Score 3 or 4 Nothing happens
Score 5 or 6 Catch a smoulder fish. Note it on your
Adventure Sheet.
When you are ready, you can:
Follow the river north
turn to 310
Follow the river south to Yellowport
turn to 10
Go west to the road
turn to 558
Go east into the countryside
turn to 278
83
Your ship is thrown about like flotsam and jetsam. When the
storm subsides, you take stock. Much has been swept overboard
- you lose 1 Cargo Unit, if you had any, of your choice. Also,
the ship has been swept way off course and the mate has no idea
where you are. ‘We’re lost at sea, Cap’n!’ he moans.
Turn to 90.
84
Your ship awaits you in the harbour. The crew are in good
spirits, as ever when a new voyage is about to begin.
Go ashore
turn to 142
Set sail
turn to 222
85
You are sailing around Scorpion Bight.
Sail north along the coast
Sail west towards Yellowport
Sail east into the Sea of Whispers
Sail south into the Violet Ocean
Go ashore at Scorpion Bight

turn to 190
turn to 29
turn to 136
turn to 416
turn to 176

86
The temple of the Three Fortunes is a squat, square building. A
frieze above the door depicts three woman weaving a tapestry.
‘That’s the Tapestry of Fate, where our destiny is woven,’
comments a priest.

10 The War-Torn Kingdom
Become an initiate
Renounce worship
Seek a blessing
Leave the temple

turn to 258
turn to 573
turn to 603
turn to 400

87
You are on the road between Blessed Springs and Venefax.
Pilgrims, the sick and injured travel this route to the holy waters
of Blessed Springs to find salvation. Roll a die.
Score 1 or 2 Attacked by a mad pilgrim. You must fight.
Pilgrim, COMBAT 3, Defence 5, Stamina 6
If you win, you get his staff.
Score 3 or 4 Nothing happens
Score 5 or 6 Blessed by a priest. Write Safety from
Storms in the Blessings box on your
Adventure Sheet.
When you are ready, you can:
Go to Blessed Springs
turn to 510
Go to Venefax
turn to 427
Go north into the countryside
turn to 548
88
To find out how well your investments have done, roll two
dice. Add 1 to the dice roll if you are an initiate of the Three
Fortunes. Also add 1 if you have the codeword Almanac, add 2 if
you have the codeword Brush, and add 3 if you have the
codeword Eldritch.
Score 2-4
Lose entire sum invested
Score 5-6
Loss of 50%
Score 7-8
Loss of 10%
Score 9-10 Investment remains unchanged
Score 11-12 Profit of 10%
Score 13-14 Profit of 50%
Score 15-16 Double initial investment
Score 17+
Triple initial investment
Now turn to 104, where you can withdraw or leave the sum
written in the box there after adjusting it according to the result
rolled.
89
The undead pirate reaches for you, but it is too slow. Then it
speaks, its voice seeming to sound inside your head.
‘Damn you, and your kind, thieving sea centaur! I curse you
forever – may you never swim again in the seas you love. You
will walk for the rest of your life as a human, doomed to wander
the surface world, unable to find the peace of coral caves!’
Quickly, you swim away, unable to believe your luck! What
a convenient curse. You find yourself already changing back to a
human, and you make it to your ship, coughing and spluttering.
Your crew haul you aboard. The gems are worth 300 Shards –
add that much to your money. You sail on, lucky to be still
human. Turn to 507.
90
Your ship is limping through unknown waters. The sun beats
down, and the wind drops to a whisper.
‘What direction, Cap’n?’ asks the bosun.
Make a SCOUTING roll at Difficulty 10.
turn to 633
Successful SCOUTING roll
Failed SCOUTING roll
turn to 484

91
He smiles and takes you into the Gambler’s Den. It is a smokefilled casino, full of all kinds of dubious characters, playing cards
and dice. If you want to gamble, decide how much you want to
bet, to a maximum of 20 Shards, and roll two dice.
Score 2
win five times your bet
Score 3-4
win twice your bet
Score 5-9
lose your bet
Score 10-11 win twice your bet
Score 12
win five times your bet
When you are ready to leave, put a tick in the box and turn to
109, unless the box is already ticked, in which case turn to 100.
92
He falls dead at your feet. Searching him, you find 25 Shards
you can take if you wish. Then you flip up his eyepatch.
Nestling in the eye-socket is a sparkling gem, a flame opal. You
pluck it free. Note the flame opal eye on your Adventure
Sheet and lose the codeword Barnacle. You hurry off, before a
patrol arrives. Turn to 400.
93
If you have the codeword Azure, turn to 359 immediately. If
not, read on.
A mad beggar, covered in sores and grime, accosts you in the
street. ‘O noble one, aid me for the love of the gods!’ he rants,
frothing at the mouth and gesticulating wildly. ‘ I need coins to
eat, food to spend, and blessings to wear!’
Ignore him and return to city centre
turn to 10
Give him 5 Shards
turn to 227
Bless him
turn to 632
94
At last, the golem is defeated. You manage to get into the
temple without being noticed by anyone else. Inside, it is cool
and dark, filled with an unearthly stillness. You reach forward to
strip the armour off the idol of Tyrnai.
Make a THIEVERY roll at Difficulty 12.
Successful THIEVERY roll
turn to 509
turn to 228
Failed THIEVERY roll
95
You are greeted warmly and politely by the provost marshal
who treats you as one if his own. However, there are no more
missions, and after thanking you once again, he politely sends
you on your way. Return to 10.
96
One of the militiamen kicks over a table, blocking your escape.
You set your back to a corner of the room and grimly prepare to
fight for your life. Fight them one at a time:
First Militiaman, COMBAT 4, Defence 7, Stamina 5
Second Militiaman, COMBAT 4, Defence 7, Stamina 4
Third Militiaman, COMBAT 4, Defence 7, Stamina 5
If you win, turn to 432. If you surrender, turn to 218.
97
You climb down a narrow track to the beach. The sea pounds
the rocky shore, and the spray lashes your face. A mournful, yet
utterly captivating singing suddenly fills your ears. You look out

The War-Torn Kingdom 11
to sea, and spot several mermaids and mermen, cavorting in the
surf.
‘Come, come to us…’ one of them calls in a lilting voice
that fills you with a yearning desire to plunge into the sea and
swim out to them.
Make a SANCTITY roll at Difficulty 10.
turn to 584
Successful SANCTITY roll
Failed SANCTITY roll
turn to 159
98
The soldier recognizes you and bows.
‘My lord,’ he says, ‘We are a small group now, left here to
act as raiders behind enemy lines. Thanks to your heroic actions,
the Citadel of Velis Corin is now ours – the king has moved his
court there. Go to the citadel if you would speak with the king.’
There is nothing else of interest in the mountains, so you
return to the foothills. Turn to 474.
99
You are on the east bank of the River Grimm, a great, powerful
river, which rushes past towards the sea. You can travel to
Golnir from here.
Cross the bridge to Conflass Cities of Gold and Glory 168
Ford the river to the south
Cities of Gold and Glory 306
Follow the river north
turn to 333
Head for the Curstmoor
turn to 175
Head towards Devil’s Peak
turn to 560
Go south to the mouth of the river
turn to 579
Go to Marlock City
turn to 100
100
Marlock City is a huge sprawling metropolis, enclosed in a
fortified wall said to have been built one thousand years ago by
the ancient Shadar Empire. It is the capital city of Sokara.
Marlock City was once known as Sokar, until General Grieve
Marlock led the army in bloody revolt against the old king,
Corin VII, and had him executed. The general renamed the city
after himself – it is now a crime to call it Sokar.
The general lives in the old king’s palace, and calls himself
the Protector-General of all Sokara. Whereas the old king was
corrupt, the general rules with a fist of iron. Some people like
the new regime; others are royalists, still loyal to Nergan, the
heir to the throne, who has gone into hiding somewhere.
Outside the city gates hang the bodies of many dead people
– labels around their necks read: ‘Rebels, executed by the state
for the good of the people’.
‘You’d best behave yourself if you don’t want to end up like
one of them,’ grates a guardsman, nodding towards the swinging
corpses, as you pass through the great eagle-headed gates of
Marlock City.
You can buy a town house in Marlock City for 200 Shards.
Owning a house gives you a place to rest, and to store
equipment. If you buy one, cross off 200 Shards and tick the
box by the town house option.
To leave Marlock City by sea, or to buy or sell ships and
cargo, go the harbourmaster.
Visit the Three Rings Tavern
turn to 158
Visit the temple of Alvir and Valmir
turn to 154
Visit the temple of Nagil
turn to 71
Visit the temple of Sig
turn to 235
Visit the temple of Elnir
turn to 568

Visit the market
Visit the harbourmaster
Go to the merchants’ guild
Explore the city
Visit your town house ! (if box ticked)
Visit the House of Priests
Visit the general’s palace
Travel east towards Trefoille
Head south-east towards the Shadar Tor
Follow the River Grimm north
Journey north into the Curstmoor
Head west to the River Grimm delta

turn to 396
turn to 142
turn to 571
turn to 138
turn to 434
turn to 535
turn to 601
turn to 377
turn to 166
turn to 99
turn to 175
turn to 579

101
You yell the name of their god again and again. The cultists clap
their hands over their ears, hopping about in horror.
‘Aargh!’ howls the leader. ‘Stop your blaspheming, you
heathen devil!’
In their confusion, you make it to your equipment. Now
you can fight your way out. Make a COMBAT roll of Difficulty
13. If you fail, turn to 204. If you succeed, you manage to fight
your way to freedom with the loss of 4 Stamina points and head
back to town, turn to 10.
102
If you have the codeword Defend, turn to 655 immediately. If
not, read on.
‘What are you doing back here,’ asks Grieve Marlock,
angrily. ‘You should be defending the citadel! You know, that
castle in the Pass of Eagles, up north! Get back there and talk to
Orin Telana!’
If you have a coded missive, turn to 677. Otherwise, you
are shown out in short order. Turn to 100.
103
You set sail for Copper Island. The uneventful journey takes
only a few days. The captain cannot believe how smooth the
voyage has been. You disembark at the harbour of Copper
Island. Turn to paragraph 99 in Over the Blood-Dark Sea.
104
Lose the codewords Almanac, Brush and Eldritch if you have
them. You can invest money in multiples of 100 Shards. The
guild will sell and buy commodities on your behalf using this
money until you return to collect it.
‘Don’t forget that you can lose money as well,’ mutters a
sullen merchant who leaves the guild penniless.
Write the sum you are investing in the box here – or
withdraw a sum invested previously. Then turn back to 571.
Money invested

105
You will have to fight it.
Scorpion Shaman, COMBAT 5, Defence 8, Stamina 9
If you win, turn to 532. If you lose, your adventures are over
unless you have a resurrection deal.

12 The War-Torn Kingdom
106
Cross off the money. The young man smiles ingratiatingly, and
hands you the pearls. Make a MAGIC roll at a Difficulty of 10.
turn to 306
Successful MAGIC roll
Failed MAGIC roll
turn to 489
107
If you are an initiate it costs only 10 Shards to purchase Tyrnai’s
blessing. A non-initiate must pay 25 Shards. Cross off the money
and mark COMBAT in the Blessings box on your Adventure
Sheet.
The blessing works by allowing you to try again when fail a
COMBAT roll. It is good for only one reroll. When you use the
blessing, cross it off your Adventure Sheet. You can only have
one COMBAT blessing at any one time. Once it is used up, you
can return to any branch of the temple of Tyrnai to buy a new
one.
When you are finished, turn to 282.
108
That night, your sleep is restless. You dream a most vivid dream.
You are attacked by a gigantic sea monster, a mighty octopoid
thing that encircles the ship with tree-like tentacles and pulls it
under the waves. You sink into the bottle-green depths until
you are caught in a glowing golden net.
You wake in an undersea palace of multi-coloured coral,
with mermaids to attend you. They lead you past trident-armed
merman guards into a great hall. Seated upon two giant shells,
like thrones, are the king and queen of the deep, with green
hair, sea-grey eyes, and crowns of pale gold. Shoals of iridescent
angel fish dart about in an intricate flashing dance of colour,
dancing for the rulers of the land beneath the waves. In awe,
you bow before them.
The queen indicates that you should entertain them, for they
are bored! A silver flute appears in your hands. Make a
CHARISMA roll at Difficulty 11.
turn to 132
Successful CHARISMA roll
Failed CHARISMA roll
turn to 457
109
You are about to leave when you see a crowd gathered around a
slim pasty-faced scholar at a card table.
‘By the Three Fortunes, but I’m hot tonight!’ he cries. It
seems he is on a winning streak. You notice a couple of dodgylooking ruffians watching the scholar carefully.
Wait and follow the scholar
turn to 540
Return to the city centre
turn to 100
110
You are walking through Bronze Hills. Virtually the whole area
has been given over to mining. Everywhere, quarries and
mineshafts abound. It is a horrible expanse of torn-up earth –
hardly any areas of green are left. Great heaps of excavated rock,
leeched of their useful minerals, mar the landscape. You find a
quarry that is open to the public. That is to say, if you pay 50
Shards, you can dig for an hour in a silver mine.
Pay 50 Shards and mine for silver
turn to 668
Go to Caran Baru
turn to 400
South into the Forest of Larun
turn to 47
West to the River Grimm
turn to 333
North west to the Western Wilderness
turn to 276

111
Your knowledge of the arcane arts is too limited to help you
here.
Fight your way to the golden net
turn to 121
Swim back to Shadar Tor
turn to 35
112
The merchants’ guild is comparatively small here. Most of its
work involves financial services for the army. Here you can bank
your money for safe-keeping, but there are no facilities for
investment. You can deposit or withdraw money – note that
you are in Caran Baru and turn to 605 – or return to the town
centre, turn to 400.
113
If you have the codeword Armour, turn to 550 immediately. If
not, but you are a Rogue, turn to 75. Otherwise, the high priest
has little to say to you; your audience is cut short. Turn to 235.
114
You are known as the priest who outwitted the storm demons
to save Sul Veneris. You are shown in to see the chief
administrator, who welcomes you freely. He can heal you of all
lost Stamina points and cure you of a disease or poison free of
charge. He cannot, however, lift a curse.
‘Whenever you need help, come to me!’ he says.
When you are ready, turn to 100.
115
If you are on a quest for the temple of Nagil, to bring them the
head of an escaped ghoul, turn to 446. If you do not want to
look for the ghoul yet, or have already done so, turn to 226.
116
Put a tick in the box. If there is one there already, turn to 322
immediately. Otherwise read on.
You realize the creature is one of the legendary repulsive
ones. It is swimming past you, intent on its own business, so you
follow it, in the hope it will lead you to the sunken city of
Ziusudra. Turn to 547.
117
There are several people with eyepatches but none with a velvet
one. You ask around among the taverns and bars of the rougher
areas in Caran Baru. Make a CHARISMA roll at Difficulty 11.
Successful CHARISMA roll
turn to 149
turn to 468
Failed CHARISMA roll
118
The overseer of the mines is a fat, cruel-looking man. He
welcomes you with a promise, ‘In one month, you’ll be dead,
slave.’
You spend the next few weeks in chains, working 15 hours a
day, deep underground, digging at a rock face in the tunnels of
the mines in the Bronze Hills. You are fed on gruel and black
bread. You realize you will not live long down here and that
you must escape if you are to survive.
If you have the codeword Ashen, turn to 351. Otherwise,
turn to 565.

The War-Torn Kingdom 13
119
Gain the codeword Ashen.
You hear the shouts from outside, muffled by the swirling
sulphurous fog. A stab of icy panic pulses at your heart, and an
instant later the door bursts open. Three militiamen armed with
maces burst through the doorway. Behind them, a tall
cadaverous gentleman wrapped in a cape is stamping in fury.
‘A thief in my house!’ he rages. ‘Do your duty!’
You realize the truth: Lauria has used you as a decoy to
cover her escape. You’ll get even later – if you survive.
The militiamen race forward to seize you. Make a COMBAT
roll at a Difficulty of 12.
Successful COMBAT roll
turn to 588
turn to 96
Failed COMBAT roll
120
You ship is sailing in the coastal waters off the Shadar Tor. You
can just see the tor, a jumbled mass of rocks, sitting on the
clifftops as it has done for a thousand years. Roll two dice:
Score 2-4
Storm
turn to 324
Score 5-9
An uneventful voyage
turn to 559
Score 10-12 A merchant ship
turn to 207
121
You wait outside, hoping to take the repulsive ones singly as
they emerge. You will have to fight the three of them, but you
may do so one at a time.
First Repulsive One, COMBAT 4, Defence 6 Stamina 10
Second Repulsive One, COMBAT 3, Defence 5, Stamina 10
Third Repulsive One, COMBAT 4, Defence 6, Stamina 10
Subtract 1 from your dice rolls for every fight because you are
unused to underwater combat.
If you beat all three, turn to 213. If you lose, your
adventuring days are over, unless you have a resurrection deal.
122
If you have the codeword Acid, turn to 543 immediately. If not,
but you have a copper amulet, turn to 384 immediately.
Otherwise, read on.
Guildmaster Vernon of Yellowport is surprisingly eager to
see you. He is a hugely fat and bejewelled merchant, and he tells
you that a group of ratmen have made a base in the sewers
beneath the city. They come out at night to raid the warehouses
and homes of the merchants of Yellowport.
‘We need an adventurer like yourself to destroy their king,’
explains the guildmaster. ‘Without him, the ratmen wouldn’t be
able to organize a feast in a larder. We will pay you 450 Shards if
you succeed.’
Vernon tells you that the sewers can be entered via an old
disused well in the poor quarter.
Whenever you are ready to enter the sewers, and you are in
Yellowport, turn to 460. Note this option on your Adventure
Sheet. Now you can return to the city centre, turn to 10, or go
down the sewers straight away.
123
This is the east bank of the River Grimm, near its source in the
Spine of Harkun, far to the north.
You reach a ford where you can travel to the west bank for 1
Shard. You could try swimming across instead, but the current is

strong: you need to succeed at a SCOUTING roll at a Difficulty of
10 to do so.
Swim or pay to cross
Cities of Gold and Glory 53
Failed attempt to swim
Cities of Gold and Glory 76
East into the wilderness
turn to 276
North to the mountains
turn to 3
Follow the riverbank south
turn to 333
124
Heavy black clouds race towards you across the sky, whipping
the waves into a frenzy. The crew mutter among themselves
fearfully. If you have the blessing of Alvir and Valmir, which
confers Safety from Storms, you can ignore the storm. Cross off
your blessing and turn to 420. Otherwise the storm hits with full
fury. Roll one die if your ship is a barque, two dice if it is a
brigantine, or three dice if a galleon. Add 1 to the roll if you
have a good crew; add 2 if you have an excellent crew.
Score 1-3
Ship sinks
turn to 346
Score 4-5
The mast splits
turn to 583
Score 6-20 You weather the storm
turn to 420
125
You mumble a prayer to the gods, but you’re not sure if you got
the ritual right.
The beggar thanks you and babbles, ‘Yes, yes, a new doublet
for an old beggar – I shall wear it with pride!’ He wanders off,
stopping passersby to show off what he thinks are his new
clothes. Poor old fool.
You return to the city centre. Turn to 10.
126
If you have the codeword Aloft, turn to 199 immediately. If not,
read on.
You come across a strange sight. A man lies staked out on
the ground, asleep. Blue energy crackles up and down his body,
and a hefty-looking hammer, glowing red, is still attached to his
belt. It is Sul Veneris, the one you have come to free.
As you are about to lift the stakes, a whistling, keening blast
of ferocious wind engulfs you. You are surrounded by whirling
storm demons – vaguely man-shaped creatures of thunderous
energy which try to sweep you into the air and off the edge of
the peak.
You try to recite the rituals of dismissal associated with such
demons. Make a SANCTITY roll at Difficulty 12.
Successful SANCTITY roll
turn to 421
Failed SANCTITY roll
turn to 210
127
Make a THIEVERY roll at Difficulty 9.
Successful THIEVERY roll
Failed THIEVERY roll

turn to 269
turn to 183

128
You make your way around the coast. The interior of the island
appears to be heavily forested. After a while, however, you
come to a bay in which a couple of ships are anchored. A small
settlement nestles on the beach, and you make your way towards
it. Turn to 195.

14 The War-Torn Kingdom
129
‘Psst, come here, friend!’ someone whispers from the shadows.
Go over to him
turn to 641
Ignore him and leave
turn to 100
130
You are greeted by several of the knights.
‘We’ll not fight you anymore,’ says the Blue Dragon Knight.
‘We keep losing,’ says the Green Dragon Knight.
‘And it’s costing us a fortune in armour, not to say a lot of
bruises!’ says the Red Dragon Knight.
You are turned away, unless you have the codeword Axe, in
which case turn to 521. Otherwise, turn to 276.
131
On the island is a community of sea gypsies. They hail you, but
then they seem to recognize you. Rapid activity takes place, and
within seconds a huge sail has been raised, and the island scuds
away – it seems they would rather not meet you a second time.
Turn to 85.
132
You play the flute like never before. The king and the queen are
enchanted by the haunting melodies you are able to coax from
the enchanted flute. Unfortunately, you have played too well.
The king puts you under a spell, so that you find you cannot
stop. Make a SANCTITY roll at Difficulty 11.
Successful SANCTITY roll
turn to 413
turn to 307
Failed SANCTITY roll
133
You are forced back by the flames. Some townsfolk, covered in
wet blankets, manage to get the woman out. They are treated
like heroes – you are forgotten. Such is life. Turn to 100.
134
‘The high priest is out of town,’ a clerk tells you.
‘Yeah, until the heat dies down!’ quips a passing member of
the temple. The clerk glares at her angrily.
Turn to 235.
135
The shores of the Lake of the Sea Dragon are swept by ochre
waves, and the air smells foul. A sickly, pale green seaweed is the
only vegetation that can survive in the sulphurous waters of the
lake. A small fishing village, Cadmium, has grown up on the
shores of the lake.
Talk to a fisherman
turn to 382
Visit the local market
turn to 292
Hire a boat and go fishing
turn to 203
Go north to the Coldbleak Mountains
turn to 474
North east into the farmlands
turn to 548
South east into open countryside
turn to 278
South, following the Stinking River
turn to 576
West along the road
turn to 387
136
The Sea of Whispers. The sea is uncannily quiet and flat as a
pane of glass under a grey-blue sky. At night, however, the
waters seem to come alive with an eerie whispering. One of

your crew tells you that the sounds you heard at night are the
sea centaurs speaking to one another across the waves.
Roll two dice:
Score 2-4
Storm
turn to 639
Score 5-7
An uneventful voyage
turn to 507
Score 8-10 An unusual catch
turn to 337
Score 11-12 A strange dream
turn to 108
137
The merchantman appears to be from Golnir. It keeps well away
from you, no doubt fearing piracy. Turn to 559.
138
If you have the codeword Ague, turn to 115. If not, read on.
You take a stroll through the streets – Marlock City is
teeming with people.
Explore the Barracks area
turn to 15
Visit the Street of Entertainers
turn to 129
Enter the residential quarter
turn to 619
139
You are spotted by a spear-armed guard. It gives an ululating cry
of alarm, and many others swarm out of the mound.
You have little choice but to run – with a pack of deadly
killers close behind. Desperately, you try to lose them in the
night.
Roll a die, and subtract one from the score. If the result is
less than or equal to your Rank, turn to 295. Otherwise, turn to
663.
140
The ship drops you at Yellowport docks. You make your way
to the city centre. Turn to 10.
141
The Temple of Maka, the terrible goddess of disease and famine,
is a large underground chamber accessible via an ornate entrance
in the middle of the Plaza of the Gods, where all the temples
stand in Yellowport.
Down below, the walls are bare earth; the ceiling is covered
in the roots of growing plants, for Maka is also the goddess of
the harvest, who must be kept happy else disease and famine will
strike the people, their crops and their livestock, bringing ruin to
all.
Become an initiate
turn to 368
Renounce her worship
turn to 261
Seek a blessing
turn to 481
Ask to be cured of disease or poison
turn to 77
Leave the temple
turn to 10
142
All shipping in and out of Marlock City must come through the
offices of the harbourmaster. Here you can buy passage to far
lands, or even a ship of your own, to fill with cargo and crew.
You can buy one-way passage on a ship to the following
destinations:
Yellowport, cost 10 Shards
turn to 372
Wishport, cost 15 Shards
turn to 455
Sorcerer’s Isle, cost 30 Shards
turn to 234
Copper Island, cost 30 Shards
turn to 424

The War-Torn Kingdom 15
If you buy a ship, you are the captain and can take it where you
wish, exploring or trading. You also get to name it. There are
three types of ship, and four types of crew quality. You can also
buy cargo for your ship to sell in other ports.
Ship Type
Barque
Brigantine
Galleon

Cost
250 Shards
450 Shards
900 Shards

Capacity
1 Cargo Unit
2 Cargo Units
3 Cargo Units

If you buy a ship, add it to the Ship’s Manifest, and name it as
you wish. The quality of the ship’s crew is average, unless you
pay to upgrade it. If you already own a ship you can sell it to the
harbourmaster at half the above prices.
It costs 50 Shards to upgrade a poor crew to average, 100
Shards to upgrade an average crew to good, and 150 Shards to
upgrade a good crew to excellent.
Cargo can be bought at Marlock City and sold at other ports
for profit. If you own a ship, you can buy as many Cargo Units
as it has room for. You may also sell cargo, if you have any.
Prices quoted here are for entire Cargo Units.
Cargo
Furs
Grain
Metals
Minerals
Spices
Textiles
Timber

To buy
190 Shards
190 Shards
700 Shards
500 Shards
820 Shards
325 Shards
190 Shards

To sell
180 Shards
180 Shards
635 Shards
460 Shards
760 Shards
285 Shards
180 Shards

Fill in your current cargo on the Ship’s Manifest – assuming you
own a ship!
If you own a ship and wish to set sail, turn to 84. If not you
can go to the city centre. Turn to 100.
143
To renounce the worship of Elnir, you must pay 40 Shards to
the priesthood by way of compensation. A passing noble says
disdainfully, ‘Ha! Only those born to rule have the fibre to
worship the Sky Lord. Those who renounce Elnir never reach
the top!’
Do you want to change your mind? If you are determined to
renounce your faith, pay the 40 Shards and delete Elnir from the
God box on your Adventure Sheet.
When you have finished here, turn to 316.

If you lose, your adventuring career will be over, unless you
have a resurrection deal. If you win, turn to 554.
146
He seems to see something he approves of because he says,
‘Perhaps. But first you must prove yourself. There is a knight, a
man of great evil. He is known as the Black Dragon Knight –
defeat him in battle and I will teach you. Bring me back his
black dragon shield as proof of your valour.’ With that he
turns and walks away.
‘But how will I find him? And then how will I find you?’
you cry.
‘Would you have me kill him for you as well?’ he asks over
his shoulder. ‘As for the second, ask for me in the Blue Griffon
Tavern in Caran Baru. My name is Yanryt the Son.’
Gain the codeword Axe and turn to 412.
147
An old troubadour tells an epic tale of adventure and romance
involving three heroes, a princess and a dragon. Afterwards you
find yourself talking to him at the bar. He tells you about the
time he was captured by the Manbeasts of Nerech, and that by
soothing their savage ferocity with music, he was able to escape.
If you are a Troubadour, turn to 469. Otherwise turn to
100.
148
‘Stop, stop, I surrender!’ yells the tree. You cease your attack. ‘I
guess you can pass, in view of recent events!’ it says grudgingly.
Then it uproots itself with a great tearing sound, and shuffles out
of the way. ‘There you go!’ mutters the tree, ‘You can
blooming well pass.’
Get the codeword Apple.
You walk through the thorn bush gate. Beyond, you find
several huge oak trees whose branches are so big that they are
able to support the homes of many people.
Turn to 358.
149
A man accosts you as you are leaving a tavern. His breath reeks
of rotting teeth, and his ear has been cut off – the mark of a man
punished for piracy.
‘Give me 10 Shards and I will tell you what you want to
know,’ he says.
Pay the money (cross off 10 Shards)
turn to 533
Refuse to pay
turn to 468

144
You call on the powers of the gods, to banish this foul,
blasphemous travesty of life. The Ghoul shrinks back for a
moment, snarling. Make a SANCTITY roll at Difficulty 10.
turn to 223
Successful SANCTITY roll
Failed SANCTITY roll
turn to 289

145
King Skabb gives a cry of anger, and leaps at you in desperation,
swinging a spiked mace in his hand. You must fight him, adding
3 if you have some rat poison to put on your weapon. If you
use the poison, cross it off your Adventure Sheet.
King Skabb, COMBAT 5, Defence 7, Stamina 10

150
Cross off the 10 Shards. You get a berth on a merchantman
headed for Marlock City. It is a trouble-free journey.
‘I pay everyone off – the Sokarans, the pirates,’ says the
captain. ‘That way I get left alone.’
You disembark in Marlock City. Turn to 100.


151
Inside the cave, you find Damor the Hermit, floating crosslegged in the air. ‘I told you never to come back!’ he shouts
angrily. He waves his hand, and you are teleported back down
to the bottom of the mountain before you can say a word. Turn
to 244.

16 The War-Torn Kingdom
152
If you have the codeword Attar, turn to 623 immediately.
You clamber down a ladder into a long, low hall, the
Venefax Market. A sign reads, ‘Closed on Thursday’.
Fortunately, it’s not Thursday, and a stocky, barrel-chested man
with piggy eyes introduces himself as Fourze, the Master of the
Market.
There is not much for you to buy or sell in this provincial
market. Items with no purchase price are not available locally.
Armour
Leather (Defence +1)
Ring mail (Defence +2)

To buy
50 Shards
–

To sell
45 Shards
90 Shards

Weapons (sword, axe, etc)
Without COMBAT bonus
COMBAT bonus +1

To buy
50 Shards
–

To sell
40 Shards
200 Shards

Other items
Rope
Lantern
Climbing gear
Scorpion antidote

To buy
50 Shards
100 Shards
100 Shards
100 Shards

To sell
45 Shards
90 Shards
90 Shards
90 Shards

When you are finished, turn back to 427.
153
You and your men are forced to surrender. The Sokarans take
all your money and cargo, if you have any.
‘Count yourself lucky I haven’t decided to call you rebels
and sell the lot of you into slavery!’ says the captain.
They depart, leaving you and your crew with the bitter taste
of defeat. Disconsolately, you sail on. Turn to 439.
154
The temple of Alvir and Valmir, Divine Rulers of the House of
the Sea, is right on the teeming harbour of Marlock City. Its
sea-green marbled porticos are draped in a hundred silver nets.
Brother and sister, Alvir and Valmir rule below the waves. Alvir
brings the souls of the drowned in his nets before his sister,
Valmir, for judgement.
A swaggering ship’s captain emerges from the temple, saying
to you in passing, ‘Never, I mean never go to sea without paying
your respects to the twin gods – unless ye want to sail through a
world of storms!’
Become an initiate
turn to 343
Renounce their worship
turn to 68
Seek a blessing
turn to 275
Leave the temple
turn to 100
155
One of the Trading Post sailors rows you out to your ship
anchored in the bay. ‘Welcome aboard, Cap’n,’ says the mate.
The sky is clear and the smell of the sea fills your heart with
wanderlust.
Set sail into the Sea of Whispers
turn to 136
Return to the Trading Post
turn to 195
156
The priest looks you over. ‘I’m afraid we have no one skilled
enough to cure you. However, I believe the Temple of Maka in

Yellowport might be able to help. And the holy waters at
Blessed Springs are known to be efficacious in this kind of case.’
Turn to 100.
157
You try to prove your loyalty to the new regime, but they don’t
believe a word of it. They beat you into unconsciousness, and
leave you lying in the gutter. They rob you of all the money
you had, but leave your possessions untouched. You come
round with only 3 Stamina points. Turn to 10.
158
The Three Rings Tavern is a comfortable inn near the city
centre. The tavern costs you 1 Shard a day. Each day you spend
here, you can recover 1 Stamina point if injured, up to the limit
of your normal unwounded Stamina score.
Pay 3 more Shards and buy some drinks
turn to 147
Leave the tavern
turn to 100
159
Your mind falls into a waking dream, and you walk lazily into
the waters. The mer-folk, laughing and singing, take you down
to their undersea home of living coral, where they stop you
from drowning with their faery magic. They keep you for
several weeks, until you are no longer an amusement to them.
You wake up, as is from a long sleep, with only a shadowy
memory of your ordeal, to find yourself washed up in the
harbour of Yellowport. You have lost all the possessions you
were carrying (erase them from your Adventure Sheet) but you
still have your money. Turn to 10.
160
If there is a tick in the box, turn to 461 immediately. If not, put
a tick there now, and read on.
You learned the password ‘Rebirth’ in the library of
Dweomer.
‘My aren’t we the wise one,’ carps the door sarcastically.
‘Still, a job’s a job, eh?’ it mutters.
The door lifts straight up, and you step into the shadows of
the Tomb of the Wizard King. It is lit by still-burning torches
that give off an eerie eldritch glow. In the middle of the large
round chamber, a sarcophagus lies, surrounded by a pentacle
drawn in blood. You notice the blood still seems fresh!
Make a MAGIC roll at Difficulty 10.
turn to 674
Successful MAGIC roll
Failed MAGIC roll
turn to 309
161
The governor is a seasoned veteran of many battles, a hardy
man. He is quick to react, and calls his guards before you can kill
him. You are subdued by sheer numbers.
‘Take this dirty rebel assassin to the dungeons!’ sneers
Marloes Marlock.
The guards take all your money and possession. Cross them
off and turn to 454.
162
With the golems out of the way, you can get on with business.
You reach forward to strip the armour off the idol of Tyrnai.
Make a THIEVERY roll at Difficulty 12.
Successful THIEVERY roll
turn to 509

The War-Torn Kingdom 17
Failed THIEVERY roll

turn to 228

163
You hold up the pirate captain’s head. The guildmaster looks
up expectantly, but his face quickly darkens.
‘This is not Amcha!! Everyone knows he has only one eye –
this poor fellow is probably some beggar you killed in an alley
somewhere. You think you can swindle the guild with this
pathetic ruse! Out! Get out! And don’t come back until you
bring me the head of Amcha One-Eye!’
The guildmaster has you removed by his guards, and you are
dumped into the street. Turn to 100.
164
The dank tunnels, running with rivulets of foul water, take you
deeper into the unknown. You mark the twisting passages with
chalk so that you can find your way back.
Shortly, you come out into a large, rough-hewn cavern,
wreathed into shadows that dance and flicker in the light you
have brought.
A sound makes you start in surprise. Make a SCOUTING or a
THIEVERY roll against Difficulty 11.
Successful SCOUTING/THIEVERY roll
turn to 247
turn to 42
Failed SCOUTING/THIEVERY roll
165
A Sokaran war galley hails you and draws up alongside. ‘We’re
coming aboard for an inspection!’ yells the captain of the galley.
His men attempt to grapple your ship.
Let them
turn to 552
Try to escape
turn to 444
166
You are on the road between Marlock City and the Shadar Tor.
Along most of the length of the road, a thin sliver of a shanty
town has grown up. Tents and lean-to’s line the way. You find
out that the people living here are refugees from Trefoille. The
city was burnt to the ground during the recent civil war, in
which the old king was overthrown. Roll a die.
Score 1 or 2 A pick-pocket! You lose 10 Shards
Score 2 or 3 Nothing happens
Score 5 or 6 You find a lantern by the side of the road
When you are finished, you can:
Go to Marlock City
turn to 100
Head for the Shadar Tor
turn to 35
167
You lose your pursuers in the treacherous rocky passes of the
mountains. Eventually, you reach the safety of the foothills.
Turn to 474.
168
As you stretch out your hand, you loose your footing, and
plummet to the ground, right between the two golems! They
turn their heads with a grating rumble, and open their mouths to
speak. The sound that comes out is a bell-like gonging that alerts
the temple. You pick yourself up and fall back on the last resort
of a rogue – running for your life! Warrior priests swarm out of
the temple in pursuit.

Roll one die, and subtract one from the total. If the result is
less than or equal to your Rank, turn to 395, otherwise turn to
551.
169
If there is a tick in the box, turn to 443 immediately. If not, put
a tick there now, and read on.
You see a couple of Sokaran warships, pursuing two other
ships. Your first mate says, ‘See the Red Pennants on them thar
ships? They be pirates, running from the Sokarans!’
Help the Sokarans
turn to 286
Help the pirates
turn to 394
Ignore the battle
turn to 443
170
Becoming an initiate of Lacuna gives you the benefit of paying
less for blessings and other services the temple can offer. It costs
60 Shards to become an initiate. You cannot do this if you are
already an initiate of another temple. If you choose to become
an initiate, write Lacuna in the God box on your Adventure
Sheet – and remember to cross off the 60 Shards. Once you
have finished here, turn to 615.
171
You have soon laid the figures out like three logs on the village
green. They are badly hurt, but still alive. Now that you can get
a better look at them, you see that they are dusted all over with
flour, giving them a spectral appearance.
You summon the other villagers. At first they are loath to
venture out and inspect the three strangers, but the fact that you
survived convinces them there are no ghosts to worry about.
‘Why, it’s Old Megan!’ cries a man as he claps eyes on one
of the three. ‘And here’s Bradok the miller, and Lame Pootmar!
Why are they all covered in flour? Where’re the ghosts?’
You shake your head and sigh at the stupidity of the yokels.
‘There weren’t any ghosts,’ you explain. ‘It was these three all
along.’
Turn to 671.
172
‘Thank you, thank you,’ coughs the scholar. He gives you a vial
of yellow dust as a reward. Note it on your Adventure Sheet.
‘I found this at an ancient archaeological site I have been
studying,’ he says. ‘I believe it needs to be thrown into the holy
waters at the village of Blessed Springs, although quite what
happens then, I have no idea.’
He thanks you again and takes his leave. Turn to 100.
173
You find yourself washed up on a rocky shore, battered and
cold, but lucky to be alive. You haul yourself up the beach on to
land. Fortunately for you, you find the village of Blessed Springs.
Turn to 510.
174
You advance, weapon at the ready. As you draw closer,
something rushes out of the cave with a shrieking cry. It is the
gorlock, a beast with legs like a bird, a body like a reptile, with
two short forelimbs and a beaked, lizard-like head. Its two legs
do indeed have backward-pointing feet. You’ll have to fight.
Gorlock, COMBAT 4, Defence 6, Stamina 7

18 The War-Torn Kingdom
If you win, turn to 315. If you lose, your bones will join the
others at the entrance of the cave, unless you have a resurrection
deal.
175
If there is a tick in the box, turn to 673 immediately. If not, put
a tick there now, and read on.
You are trekking across the aptly named Curstmoor. A great
rolling expanse of blasted heath stretches before you. Grey
clouds hang over a mournful, dirty-water coloured plain,
studded with rocky outcrops and low hills. A raven flutters to
the ground nearby, eyeing you curiously. His brothers caw
loudly into the echoing sky. Dusk falls, and in the dim twilight,
a herd of horses comes streaking out of the night, straight at you.
As they near, it seems to you that their hooves are not touching
the ground, and from their manes trail wispy clouds of sparks,
like tiny stars.
Get out of their way
turn to 390
Mount one of them
turn to 66
176
The crew are very nervous about your orders. They drop anchor
in a bay, and will row you to shore, but they absolutely refuse to
come with you. In fact, they won’t even wait for you to come
back.
If you insist on going ashore, your crew will sail for
Yellowport and meet you there. ‘If you ever make it back,’ adds
the first mate ominously.
If you want to go ashore note on your Adventure Sheet that
your ship is now docked in Yellowport, and turn to 32.
Otherwise, turn to 85 and choose again.
177
You can leave possessions and money here to save having to
carry them around with you. You can also rest here safely, and
recover any Stamina points you have lost. Record in the box
anything you wish to leave. Each time you return, roll two dice:
Score 2-9
Your possessions are safe
Score 10-11 A break-in. Any money left here has gone
Score 12
Raiding nomads take all your possessions
Turn to 400.
Items at townhouse

178
A pale woman in black leather brushes past you in the street,
casting you an enigmatic look. Make a THIEVERY roll at a
Difficulty of 10.
Successful THIEVERY roll
turn to 635
turn to 198
Failed THIEVERY roll

179
You claim that you have come to swear allegiance to Nergan,
the rightful king of Sokara. Captain Vorkung is not convinced.
He narrows his eyes suspiciously.
‘You’d better leave – now. Before I decide you are a spy,
and have you shot!’
One of the archers looses a shaft, and an arrow thuds into the
ground at your feet, quivering menacingly.
You realize it is time to leave, and climb down the
mountain. Turn to 474.
180
You step through the archway. Immediately the symbols on the
stone begin to glow with red-hot energy; your hair stands on
end and your body tingles. A crackling nimbus of blue-white
force engulfs you, the sky darkens and thunder and lightning
crash and leap across the heavens. Suddenly, your vision fades,
and everything goes black.
When your sight returns, you find yourself outside the gates
of a huge, fortified city. A guard starts in surprise at the sight of
you. Then he shakes his head as if to clear it, sure he must have
imagined what he just saw!
The gates open, and a troop of heavy cavalry canter past.
‘Make way for the Marlock City militia!’, says the guard.
When they have passed, you walk into the city. Turn to 100.
181
The Green Man Inn costs you 1 Shard a day. Each day you
spend here, you can recover 1 Stamina point if injured, up to
the limit of your normal unwounded Stamina score. When you
are ready, turn to 195.
182
Your ship, crew and cargo are lost to the deep, dark sea. Cross
them off your Adventure Sheet. Your only thought now is to
save yourself. Roll two dice. If the score is greater than your
Rank, you are drowned – turn to 680. If the score is less than or
equal to your Rank, you manage to find some driftwood, and
make it back to shore. Lose Stamina points equal to the score of
one dice roll and, if you can survive that, turn to 591.
183
You find a shadowy natural alcove in the rocky wall of a tunnel.
Desperately, you squeeze yourself into it, using all your skill to
hide in the darkness.
Several ratmen run past, but others sniff you out with their
highly developed sense of smell. You are overwhelmed by sheer
numbers. Turn to 308.
184
The Blue Griffon Tavern is frequented by soldiers and
mercenaries. The tavern costs you 1 Shard a day. Each day you
spend here, you can recover 1 Stamina point if injured, up to
the limit of your normal unwounded Stamina score.
If you have the codeword Axe or if you have a black
dragon shield, and want to find Yanryt the Son, turn to 451.
If not, but you want to spend a further 3 Shards buying
drinks all round at the bar, and listen for rumours, turn to 341.
Or you can return to the town centre – turn to 400.

The War-Torn Kingdom 19
185
You tell him who you are, and that General Grieve Marlock’s
brother, the Governor of Yellowport, is your personal friend.
His eyes widen as recognition dawns on his fat, greedy face.
‘Ah, er... my lord!,’ he cries. ‘I was merely jesting! Umm....
We were, I mean to say, perhaps you need an escort?’
‘I think we require a levy in order to carry out the important
mission the governor has entrusted to me,’ you say. ‘Sixty Shards
ought to do it, Captain!’
The Sokaran captain hands over the 60 Shards (add it to your
Adventure Sheet) and leads his men off your ship.
You sail on. Turn to 439.
186
You pass the leash over to the man in the palanquin, who leans
out and hands you over 75 Shards. You leave the slave market.
Turn to 400.
187
You tell the high priest that you wish to renounce the worship
of Nagil. He brings out a small wax dummy, and carves your
name into it. Then he sets fire to it. The wax melts into a
puddle on the floor and the priest steps into it, leaving the
imprint of his foot.
‘Such is the fate of those who would deny Nagil, the Lord of
Death,’ he says.
When you ask if you must pay compensation to the temple,
he shakes his head, saying, ‘It is you who loses, not we.’
Do you want to reconsider? If you are determined to
renounce your faith, delete Nagil from the God box on your
Adventure Sheet. You must lose any outstanding resurrection
arrangements. When you have finished here, turn to 100.
188
You are thrown into a stinking prison cell.
‘Well, well, we meet again, my old friend,’ says a half-dead
old man with white hair.
You recognize the poor old man whom you met the last
time you were thrown into the dungeons! He launches into the
same old story about the gorlock, the creature with the
backward-pointing feet. By the end of it, you are looking
forward to being sold into slavery and sent to work in the tin
mines of Caran Baru. Turn to 118.
189
There is nothing in your limited knowledge of undersea wildlife
to help you.
Swim back to the Shadar Tor
turn to 35
Fight your way to the golden net
turn to 121
Try magic
turn to 592
190
You are sailing along the coast off Blessed Springs and Fort
Brilon. Gulls cluster around the ship, looking for food. Their
cries echo across the vast seas. Roll two dice:
Score 2-4
Storm
turn to 38
Score 5-9
An uneventful voyage
turn to 209
Score 10-12 A shipwreck
turn to 504

191
The provost marshal is a rich and powerful man, cunning and
capable.
‘I have need of someone like you,’ he says. ‘A group of
rebels, loyal to the old king, are hiding out in the Coldbleak
Mountains. Their leader, Nergan Corin, is dangerous to us, as
he is heir to the old throne and a rallying point for the rebels.
Penetrate their stronghold and slay Nergan Corin, and you will
be richly rewarded. I can promise you 500 Shards and a title if
you succeed.’
If you take the mission, gain the codeword Artery.
If you have the codeword Ambuscade, turn to 375.
Otherwise, the provost marshal dismisses you. Turn to 10.
192
During your short trip upward, the old man regales you with
tales of your destiny and fate, continuously arguing with himself
as he does so.
You reach a hill covered with a circle of large obsidian
standing stones. Despite the bitter wind that blow across these
hills the stones are unweathered and seem almost newly lain.
‘Here are the Gates of the World.’ says the mad old man.
The stones are laid in such a way that they form three
archways, each carven with mystic symbols and runes of power.
‘Each gate will take you to a part of the world of Harkuna,
though I know not where,’ explains the old man. Abruptly, he
turns around and sets off down the hill, babbling to himself. His
voice fades as he descends the hill, leaving you alone with the
brooding stones and the howling wind. Turn to 65.
193
You find yourself washed up on a rocky shore, battered and
cold, but alive. You head inland until you come to a road. Turn
to 621.
194
You know what the strange swellings on the dead bodies mean.
They have been injected with the eggs of the ker’ilk, hideous
lobster-like beings of the deep. Soon the eggs will hatch, and the
young will feed on the bodies of the sailors. You also know that
the adults never stray far from their eggs, and warn your men
that the ker’ilk are nearby.
Your warning is timely – several horriffic-looking creatures,
like giant lobsters, all spines and pincers, surge out of the waters.
Your men, however, are ready. A battle ensues – you must fight
one of the creatures.
Ker’ilk, COMBAT 4, Defence 9, Stamina 8
If you win, Turn to 519. If you lose, you’ll end up as food for
ker’ilk young, unless you have a resurrection deal.
195
Gain the codeword Aspen if you do not already have it.
The Trading Post is a small village, set up here by
enterprising settlers from the mainland. Its main export appears
to be furs from the forest.
The Mayor, a fat genial fellow, who greets you personally,
insists that one day the Trading Post will be a thriving town.
There is not a lot here yet, however: a small market, a quay, the
settler’s houses, and a shrine to Lacuna the Huntress, goddess of
nature.

20 The War-Torn Kingdom
Visit the shrine to Lacuna
Visit the market
Visit the quayside
Visit the Green Man Inn
Climb the hill that overlooks the town
Go inland, into the Old Forest

turn to 544
turn to 452
turn to 332
turn to 181
turn to 11
turn to 257

196
If you were wounded by the ghoul you have been infected with
a disease (Ghoulbite). Note that, until you can find a cure, you
must subtract one from your SANCTITY, COMBAT and
CHARISMA abilities (no ability can drop below one). If you were
already suffering from Ghoulbite, there are no further effects. In
any case, you hack of the hideous head and leave. Note you
have a ghoul’s head and turn to 100.
197
The blessing of Sig costs 10 Shards if you are an initiate, 30
Shards otherwise. If you buy the blessing, cross of the money
and mark THIEVERY in the Blessings box on your Adventure
Sheet. The blessing works by allowing you to reroll any failed
THIEVERY attempt once. When you use the blessing, cross it off
your Adventure Sheet. You can then make a second try at the
roll. You can have only one blessing for each ability at any one
time. Once your THIEVERY blessing is used up, you can return
to any branch of the temple of Sig to buy a new one. When you
are finished here, turn back to 235.
198
Musing to yourself about the strange woman, you pause at the
end of an alleyway to buy roast chestnuts as you watch her
striding off into the evening smog enveloping the city.
‘That’ll be a Shard,’ grunts the chestnut vendor.
You reach for your money pouch. Then your hands fumble in
panic. The pouch has gone! After a moment the truth dawns on
you. You stare grimly in the direction that the black-garbed
woman went, but there is no sign of her now.
‘I’ll have them chestnuts back then!’ growls the vendor when
he sees you can’t pay.
Lose all the money you were carrying and turn to 10.
199
If there is a tick in the box, turn to 634 immediately. If not, put
a tick there now, and read on.
A strange, vaguely humanoid shape, flickering with energy,
soars down to attack you. You must fight.
Storm Demon, COMBAT 3, Defence 6, Stamina 8
If you win, it fades away, leaving a clear blue jewel, worth 200
Shards. Note the money on your sheet directly.
If you lose, it’s the end of you, unless you have a
resurrection deal. If you still live, there’s nothing else up here, so
you climb down again. Turn to 658.
200
You have acquired an old map of the Forest of the Forsaken in
Golnir (in Cities of Gold and Glory), showing a safe path that
leads to the Tower of Despair. It seems to conflict with the
location of the Tower on your own map of Golnir from Cities of
Gold and Glory. Which is correct?
This map is the fourth map included in the Map Pack
document. As long as you retain this treasure map, you may

peruse it at will. Should you lose or sell the treasure map
however, you should then no longer consult the map of the
Forest of the Forsaken.
To return to the Yellowport market, turn to 30.
201
The road between the Citadel and Caran Baru is chock-a-block
with troops and carts. It looks like there is a war in the north.
Head for the citadel
turn to 271
Go south to Caran Baru
turn to 400
Head west
turn to 276
Head east
turn to 60
202
Gingerly, you open the door. It leads to a curtained alcove,
through which you observe the room beyond. It is a long, low
hall – clearly an ancient Uttakin temple, from a time when the
Masked Lords of Uttaku ruled all of Harkuna, but now part of
the sewers of Yellowport.
A cheap wooden chair has been placed on the altar to act as a
throne. On it sits a large and extremely ugly ratman. He has a
tacky amulet around his neck, and a rusty iron hoop for a
crown. About four ratmen are kneeling before him, engaged in
conversation.
‘But, Skabb...’ one of the rat men is saying.
‘That’s Great King Skabb to you, dung-breath!!’ bellows the
rat on the throne.
Charge in to the attack
turn to 428
Sneak in to assassinate the king
turn to 595
Use sorcery to get close to Skabb
turn to 24
Bluff your way in
turn to 336
203
You can hire a fishing boat for 15 Shards a day. It comes with a
fishing net.
Pay 15 Shards and go fishing
turn to 267
Don’t go fishing
turn to 135
204
There are simply too many of them, and you are beaten into
submission. Your end is grisly indeed – killed, boiled with herb
and garlic, and eaten by the cannibal cultists of Badogor the
Unspoken! Your adventures end here – unless you have a
resurrection deal.
205
The runes are written in Old Shadar, an ancient language from
thousands of years ago. You realize that the runes form a spell
that will give you the power to breathe underwater for a few
hours.
Use the spell and swim out to sea
turn to 493
Go down to the beach
turn to 97
Take the road to Trefoille
turn to 602
Take the road to Marlock City
turn to 166
206
The crew absolutely refuses to sail into the Unbounded Ocean.
‘There’s no land out there, and the seas are infested with
Demons of the Deep – if we go to far, we’ll fall of the edge of
the world!’ says the first mate.

The War-Torn Kingdom 21
You have no choice but to reconsider your destination.
Turn back to 507 and choose again.
207
If there is a tick in the box, turn to 137 immediately. If not, put
a tick there now, and read on.
The look-out cries, ‘Ship on the starboard bow!’
You spot a crippled merchant ship, limping towards Marlock
City. It looks like a trading vessel from the Feathered Lands.
Assist
turn to 293
Attack
turn to 464
208
Using your sorcerous powers you breathe a cloud of greenish
vapour over the ratmen. Coughing and gasping, they sink into
an enchanted slumber – all but King Skabb. Standing on the
altar, he is able to keep his head above the vapours. Turn to 145.
209
You are sailing in the coastal waters off Fort Brilon, and Blessed
Springs.
Sail north along the coast of Nerech
turn to 249
Sail south to Scorpion Bay
turn to 430
Sail east into the Sea of Whispers
turn to 136
210
They fall back for a moment, but your invocation fails to take
hold, and they close in. You must fight them one at a time.
1st Storm Demon, COMBAT 4, Defence 7, Stamina 8
2nd Storm Demon, COMBAT 4, Defence 7, Stamina 8
3rd Storm Demon, COMBAT 4, Defence 7, Stamina 8
If you win, turn to 54. If you lose, you are tossed off the peak,
and end up as a messy paste on the ground below. That’s the
end of you, unless you have a resurrection deal.
211
When he emerges, you are waiting for him. Make a THIEVERY
roll at Difficulty 11.
Successful THIEVERY roll
turn to 58
turn to 304
Failed THIEVERY roll
212
You are dissolved in the acid, until all that is left of you is a pile
of yellow dust. Vayss scoops you up and puts you into a bottle
on his shelf. Cross off all the possessions and money you were
carrying, and turn to 31.
213
Each creature bursts open in death, spilling a black empty cloud
into the water. The sac in which this ink is kept falls free from
its body. You can take the ink sacs if you wish – note up to
three of them on your Adventure Sheet. You also find coral
jewellery worth about 45 Shards that you can take as cash. You
swim down and take the golden net (note it on your
Adventure Sheet) and swim for the Shadar Tor as fast as you
can.
Take the road to Trefoille
turn to 602
Take the road to Marlock City
turn to 166

214
You try to stop the panic, but your men are too far gone. They
are already diving over the side, trying to swim back to your
ship. Unfortunately, they are even more vulnerable in the sea,
and the ker’ilk take them at will. Soon you are all overwhelmed,
and you are taken alive to be injected with eggs – a most
horrible end.
Your adventures are over, unless you have resurrection deal
with a temple.
215
Caran Baru market consists of several covered arcades – much of
its stock is for miners and soldiers, and it is run with businesslike efficiency by the Sokaran military. Items with no purchase
price are not available locally.
Armour
Leather (Defence +1)
Ring mail (Defence +2)
Chain mail (Defence +3)
Splint armour (Defence +4)
Plate armour (Defence +5)
Heavy plate (Defence +6)

To buy
To sell
50 Shards
45 Shards
100 Shards
90 Shards
200 Shards 180 Shards
400 Shards 360 Shards
800 Shards 720 Shards
– 1440 Shards

Weapons (sword, axe, etc)
No COMBAT bonus
COMBAT bonus +1
COMBAT bonus +2
COMBAT bonus +3

To buy
50 Shards
250 Shards
500 Shards
–

Magical equipment
Amber wand (MAGIC +1)
Ebony wand (MAGIC +2)
Cobalt wand (MAGIC +3)

To buy
To sell
500 Shards 400 Shards
– 800 Shards
– 1600 Shards

Other items
Mandolin (CHARISMA +1)
Lockpicks (THIEVERY +1)
Holy symbol (SANCTITY +1)
Compass (SCOUTING +1)
Rope
Lantern
Climbing gear
Bag of pearls
Rat poison
Silver nugget

To buy
300 Shards
–
–
500 Shards
50 Shards
100 Shards
100 Shards
–
60 Shards
–

To sell
40 Shards
200 Shards
400 Shards
800 Shards

To sell
270 Shards
270 Shards
100 Shards
400 Shards
45 Shards
90 Shards
90 Shards
100 Shards
50 Shards
150 Shards

When you have finished, turn back to 400.
216
The cry goes up throughout the palace, ‘Murder! Assassin!’ and
the hunt is on – for you. You will need all your skill to get out
of the palace alive. Roll one die, subtracting one if you are a
Rogue, Troubadour, or a Wayfarer. If you score less than or
equal to your Rank, turn to 407. Otherwise, turn to 566.
217
You come across a forest glade. Birds twitter in the trees, and
woodland animals frolic playfully about. In the middle of the
glade stands a mighty willow, ancient beyond reckoning. The

22 The War-Torn Kingdom
trunk is hollow, and a wooden door has been set in the
entrance. You step into the glade.
Make a SANCTITY roll at Difficulty 9.
turn to 356
Successful SANCTITY roll
Failed SANCTITY roll
turn to 646

224
Using your wilderness-honed sense of direction you dart
through the maze of tunnels. Soon the sounds of pursuit fade,
until they are but a dim echo. Heaving a sigh of relief, you press
on. Turn to 580.

218
The militia take you alive. You lose all your money and
possessions. Cross them off your Adventure Sheet. Then you are
thrown into the dungeons of Yellowport.
Turn to 454.

225
You find a cave, with piles of human bones outside it. However,
it is quite empty without signs of habitation – the beast that lived
here is dead or departed. You make your way back down to
Blessed Springs. Turn to 510.

219
Your ship, crew and cargo are lost to the deep, dark sea. Cross
them off your Adventure Sheet. Your only thought now is to
save yourself. Roll two dice. If the score is greater than your
Rank, you are drowned – turn to 680. If the score is less than or
equal to your Rank, you manage to find some driftwood, and
make it back to shore. Lose Stamina points equal to the score of
one die roll and, if you can survive that, turn to 436.

226
You take a stroll through the streets – Marlock City has a busy
night life.
Explore the barracks area
turn to 15
Go to the Street of Entertainers
turn to 129
Search the residential quarter
turn to 619

220
The temple of Alvir and Valmir is built like an upside-down
galleon. Alvir and Valmir are brother and sister, King and Queen
of the Land beneath the Waves, masters of the sea. Their
servants and soldiers are the souls of the drowned, and when seas
are rough and storm-tossed, sailors say that Alvir and Valmir are
arguing again.
If you have the codeword Anchor, turn to 531.
Otherwise, you notice a sign on the temple door, which
says: ‘Wanted: brave adventurer – apply to the high priest.’
Become an initiate
turn to 294
Renounce worship
turn to 624
Seek a blessing
turn to 448
Talk to the high priest
turn to 411
Leave the temple
turn to 10
221
One of the militiamen recognizes you and shouts, ‘That’s the
one who assassinated Marloes Marlock! Get him!’
You turn tail and flee with fifteen militiamen on your heels.
Roll one die. If you score less than or equal to your Rank, turn
to 57. Otherwise, turn to 252.
222
Your ship is sailing in the coastal waters near Marlock City. Roll
two dice.
Score 2-4
Storm
turn to 124
Score 5-9
An uneventful voyage
turn to 420
Score 10-12 Sea battle
turn to 169
223
The ghoul staggers back, howling at the night sky, and gnashing
its teeth. Suddenly, brownish ichor spills from its eyes and the
flesh begins to shrivel on its bones. It collapses in on itself,
leaving only a mound of putrescent matter, atop of which rests
its head, now lifeless, empty eye-sockets staring at the moon.
You grab the head, and set off. Note you have a ghoul’s head
and turn to 100.

227
Cross off 5 Shards. The mad beggar takes the money and
swallows the lot in one gulp. ‘A gourmet meal!’ he babbles.
If you want to bless him, turn to 632. If not, he wanders off
ranting and you head back to the city centre, turn to 10.
228
A stone slab at the base of the idol shifts ominously as you put
your foot on it. A wickedly barbed spear springs out of the
ground, straight into your leg. Lose 5 Stamina points.
If you still live, you remove the chain mail and sling it over
your shoulder. Note the gold chain mail of Tyrnai on your
Adventure Sheet. Because it is made of gold, it is useless if worn
as armour.
As you glance at the jaguar-headed idol, its eyes seem to turn
to look at you. Make a SANCTITY roll at Difficulty 8.
Successful SANCTITY roll
turn to 625
turn to 279
Failed SANCTITY roll
229
The guildmaster welcomes you warmly. He has no further
missions for you, though he treats you with respect because you
brought Amcha to justice. If you are completely broke, without
a Shard in your pocket or in the bank, he will give you 200
Shards. If you have any money at all, he will not help. Turn to
100.
230
You are caught in a narrow defile, and seized by many men.
You are hauled before Captain Vorkung, who sentences you to
be hanged. Sentence is carried out immediately. Your
adventures are over, unless you have a resurrection deal.
If you do have a resurrection deal, turn to the paragraph you
have noted. Also, through a quirk of magical fate, somehow the
royal ring has travelled with you through the lands of the dead.
Retain it on your Adventure Sheet.
231
You notice that the figures have left footprints on the damp grass
and cannot, therefore, be ghosts.
Step out and confront the figures
turn to 23
Stay hidden and follow when they leave
turn to 541

The War-Torn Kingdom 23

232
If there is a tick in the box, turn to 151 immediately. If not, put
a tick there now, and read on.
The interior of the cave is cool and refreshing, a paradise
compared with the savage heat of your gruelling climb. You find
a man, floating cross-legged in the middle of the air! He is
dressed only in a loincloth, and is painfully thin. His face is
shrouded in a great luxuriant growth of glossy black hair, a beard
like no other you have ever seen.
At the sight of you, he gives an exasperated sigh, and says, ‘I
am Damor the Hermit. A HERMIT. That means I like to live
alone – got that? Alone! So go away!’
‘I nearly died getting here, old man!’ you reply testily.
‘Yes, you’d have to be pretty tough to get through the curse
I put on the path, I suppose,’ he says somewhat apologetically.
If you have the codeword Anthem, turn to 285. Otherwise,
turn to 480.
233
If there is a tick in the box, turn to 412. If not, put a tick there
now, and read on.
You are on the cobbled road between Yellowport and
Trefoille. It is well-kept by the Sokaran military.
You spot a man up ahead, striding towards you. Suddenly,
five or six bandits appear from the wayside to assault him. The
lone figure executes a series of movements, almost faster than the
eye can see, and you see his sword flashing in the sun. Moments
later, the bandits are all lying dead or dying around him.
You stop to compliment him on his swordsmanship.
The man, a grizzled veteran of many campaigns, regards you
with steely grey eyes and says, ‘I have learned much of the arts
of war in my time, it is true.’
Impressed by his skill and demeanour, you venture to ask
him to teach you some of these arts. He looks you up and down
with a critical eye.
If you are a Warrior, turn to 146. Otherwise turn to 567.
234
The ship’s captain says, ‘I’ll take you to Dweomer, on the
Sorcerer’s Isle but it’s a dangerous place. You’d better be sure
you can handle it – if you’re not at least a Master of your
profession, I’d advise against it. It’s up to you though.’
You must have Over the Blood-dark Sea to travel to Sorcerer’s
Isle. If you want to go, cross off the 30 Shards and turn to 26.
Otherwise, if you are in Marlock City, turn back to 142; if you
are in Yellowport, return to 555.
235
The temple of Sig the Cunning, patron of vagabonds,
troubadours, lovers, thieves and rogues, is a ramshackle
warehouse in the poor quarter. Inside, however, there is so
much wealth it makes you gasp – the idol of Sig, a saturnine
two-faced young human of indeterminate sex, is covered in
gems.
‘As you can see, we have been made rich by generous, er,
donations!’ says a black-robed priest.
Seek an audience with the high priest
turn to 113
Become an initiate
turn to 437
Renounce worship
turn to 563
Seek a blessing
turn to 197

Leave the temple

turn to 100

236
You find Fourze inside, desperately trying to get out of his suit
and run off. At the sight of a hardened adventurer, rather than a
timid villager, he surrenders and confesses all. He terrified people
with the monster disguise to keep them away from the farm. He
and his men were kidnapping villagers, chaining them in the
cellar below and selling them to a slaver from Caran Baru, for
work in the slave mines. You find Haylie and several other
villagers down below in the cellar.
‘Don’t hurt me,’ begs Fourze, ‘I’m only trying to make a few
Shards.’
‘What! By selling your own people into slavery,’ says one of
the villagers, giving him a good kick.
You lead them back to Venefax. Turn to 414.
237
You explain what a tree-lover you are, and that your heart has
always been at home in forests. You portray yourself as the
greenest adventurer ever.
Make a CHARISMA roll at Difficulty 10. Add the 3 to the
dice roll is you are a Wayfarer, and add 1 if you are an initiate of
Lacuna.
Successful CHARISMA roll
turn to 391
Failed CHARISMA roll
turn to 410
238
The vile-looking creature shoots towards you with a terrifying
predatory speed. You have no choice but to fight it.
Repulsive One, COMBAT 5, Defence 10, Stamina 10
You must subtract 2 from your dice rolls for this fight, as you are
unused to underwater combat. If you win turn to 53. If you
lose, your adventuring days are over, unless you have a
resurrection deal.
239
The climb is long and hard, but at last you heave yourself up on
to the top of Devil’s Peak – a flat expanse of weathered black
rock. If you have the codeword Altitude, turn to 126.
Otherwise, turn to 199.
240
You sail into the teeming harbour of Marlock City. Sokaran
warships escort you in.
‘Troubled times,’ comments a sailor.
Turn to 100.
241
To renounce the worship of Elnir, you must pay 40 Shards to
the priesthood by way of compensation. The high priest says
nothing – he merely regards you with a mild contempt, as if he
expected you to fail in the worship of Elnir. Do you want to
change your mind?
If you are determined to renounce your faith, pay the 40
Shards and delete Elnir from the God box on your Adventure
Sheet. When you have finished here, turn to 100.
242
You fight the Sokarans to a standstill. The Sokaran captain
orders the retreat; he and his marines pull back to their galley.

24 The War-Torn Kingdom
You and your crew are too tired to pursue, and the Sokarans
pull away.
‘I’ll get you next time!’ yells the captain.
You sail on. Turn to 439.
243
You cannot find any hidden panels – Lauria did say that the real
treasure was upstairs. You call to her, but she doesn’t reply.
Go upstairs
turn to 386
Wait downstairs
turn to 534
244
You have come to the foothills of the Spine of Harkun. The
great mountains rise up majestically before you, their snowcapped peaks wreathed in clouds. You find a clear, cold stream,
where you drink your fill and replenish your water supply.
Climb upwards
turn to 536
Head south
turn to 518
Head east to Disaster Bay
turn to 495
West to the citadel
turn to 271
245
The footprints cross a stream, and there you lose them. After an
hour’s fruitless searching by moonlight, you are forced to give
up and go back to the village. There you are admonished for
being reckless.
‘What if the ghosts had taken you with them back to their
graves?’ says one man grimly.
The next day you are ready to resume your journey.
Follow the river north
turn to 576
Follow the river south
turn to 82
East into the countryside
turn to 278
West to the main road
turn to 558
246
If you have already successfully stolen the gold chain mail of
Tyrnai for the Temple of Sig, turn to 467. If not, read on.
The Temple of Tyrnai, the God of Battle, Chaos and Strife,
is built like a small fortress in one corner of the city, near the
barracks. Its heavy wooden gates are flanked by iron statues of
bull-headed men wielding clubs. The workmanship is uncannily
life-like. Inside, the god is represented by a stone idol of a
jaguar-headed warrior. A beautiful suit of gold chain mail adorns
the idol.
Become an initiate
turn to 636
Renounce worship
turn to 514
Seek a blessing
turn to 107
Make resurrection arrangements
turn to 33
Try to steal the chain mail
turn to 305
Leave the temple
turn to 400
247
The sound was the click of a secret door sliding open in the wall
of the caverns. With a swift motion, you step up beside it, back
to the wall. A figure emerges but you are able to ambush the
ambusher – deft blow to the back of the head sends the dark
figure crashing to the ground.
Another steps forth, however, shouting in a guttural voice.
You realize that the figures are ratmen – manlike creatures that
stand on two legs, but which have the tail and hairy features of a
gigantic rat.

You must fight the ratman. If you have some rat poison,
you can apply it to the blade of your weapon and add 3 to your
dice rolls, for this fight only. If you use the rat poison, cross it
off your Adventure Sheet.
Ratman, COMBAT 3, Defence 6, Stamina 6
If you win, turn to 423. If you lose, turn to 308.
248
If you have a willow staff, turn to 319 immediately. If not, read
on.
The Oak Druid, who asked for you to take the oak staff to
the Willow Druid, has nothing more to say to you.
You return to the Trading Post. Turn to 195.
249
‘Nerech’s a dangerous place – even its coastal waters, Cap’n,’
says the first mate. ‘The men probably won’t follow you there if
they don’t think you’re good enough to lead them!’
If your Rank is 4 or more, turn to paragraph 50 in The Plains
of Howling Darkness.
If your Rank is less than 4, the first mate advises you against
making the ocean journey. If you take his advice, turn back to
209.
If you insist on making the trip, you need to make a
CHARISMA roll at Difficulty 11 to convince the crew to follow
you.
Successful CHARISMA roll
The Plains of Howling
Darkness 50
Failed CHARISMA roll
turn to 209
250
The city of Trefoille is a terrifying vision of apocalyptic
destruction. It had once been a thriving crossroads town, but
now it is a burnt-out hulk. It was almost razed to the ground
when it declared for the late king, during the recent civil war,
and tried to hold out against the army of Grieve Marlock, the
current Protector-General of Sokara. It was then sacked by the
general’s mercenaries, and General Marlock is now trying to
rebuild it – craftsmen are hard at work everywhere.
If you have the codeword Amends, and want to visit
Oliphard the Wizardly, turn to 656. Otherwise there is nothing
here but ashes and rubble.
Take the road to the Shadar Tor
turn to 602
Take the road to Marlock City
turn to 377
Head into the Curstmoor
turn to 175
Take the road north
turn to 558
Take the road to Yellowport
turn to 233
251
If you have the codeword Avenge, turn to 622 immediately. If
not, read on.
The last time you were here, you had only a few minutes to
grab some loot. This time, the sea dragon returns almost straight
away, and you are forced to climb out of the hole in the roof
without getting anything except a pouch of 50 Shards. You
crawl out on to the island in the middle of the lake and hitch a
boat ride back to Cadmium. Turn to 135.
252
You lead them a merry chase through the backstreets of
Yellowport but unfortunately for you, you ran smack dab into

The War-Torn Kingdom 25
another patrol. You are captured and thrown into the dungeons
to await your fate but not before the militiamen take all your
money and possessions. Turn to 454.
253
To renounce the worship of Lacuna, you must pass an ordeal of
judgment. This entails the high priestess throwing several silver
daggers at you, while you remain motionless.
‘If Lacuna sees it in her heart to forgive you, the daggers will
all miss,’ she claims.
Submit to the ordeal
turn to 313
Remain an initiate after all
turn to 615
254
You ask for a kiss. ‘Oh no!’ cry the mer-folk, ‘A kiss is not so
easily won! Tell us a tale to stir our hearts – then we may reward
you.’
Make a CHARISMA roll at Difficulty 9.
turn to 12
Successful CHARISMA roll
Failed CHARISMA roll
turn to 281
255
The provost marshal takes you to an empty side chamber, away
from prying ears. Over a glass of fine wine you tell him of your
adventures in the Coldbleak Mountains. When you give him the
Royal Ring of the House of Corin, he knows that Nergan is
dead. Cross the royal ring off your Adventure Sheet.
Marloes Marlock is pleased indeed. He pays you 500 Shards
and awards you the title Protector of Sokara. Note it in your
Titles and Honours box. The title will give you instant respect
and command obedience in Sokara.
Also, after completing such a difficult test, you find the
experience has taught you much – gain 1 Rank and roll one die.
The result is the number of Stamina points you gain
permanently. Note the increase on your Adventure Sheet. Also,
don’t forget to increase your Defence by 1 as a result of your
gain in Rank.
Return to 10 and choose again.
256
The king is overjoyed with the news. ‘Excellent! At this rate I
will be able to take my rightful place in the throne room of Old
Sokar.’
He rewards you with the title King’s Champion. Note this
in the Titles and Honours box on your Adventure Sheet. The
title comes with a cash gift of 500 Shards as well.
You also go up one Rank. Roll one die – the result is the
number of Stamina points you gain permanently. Note the
increase on your Adventure Sheet. Also, don’t forget to increase
your Defence by 1 as a result of your gain in Rank.
The king has another mission for you. He explains that an
army of steppe Nomads, Trau, Mannekyn people, and Sokaran
troops still loyal to Nergan, have gathered on the steppes, and
are moving to siege the Citadel of Velis Corin, which guards the
Pass of Eagles through the Spine of Harkun. Nergan tells you
that an alliance of northern nations has declared war on the new
Sokaran regime. A certain General Beladai leads the Northern
Alliance, and King Nergan has joined forces with him. He asks
you to travel to the Steppes and talk to General Beladai.

‘An adventurer like yourself might be able to steal into the
citadel, and bring about its downfall from within, or some such.
If the citadel falls we will have Sokara at our mercy.’
If you want to take up this mission for the King, record the
codeword Assault. When you are ready, you are led back down
to the foothills of the mountains. Turn to 474.
257
The trees are closely packed, leaning together as if in conference,
whispering quietly among themselves. Birds twitter in the
distance, and slivers of sunlight lance down through the musty
gloom.
As you proceed along a forest track, you think you hear a
rustling in the bushes. Later, you spot a shadowy figure darting
through the trees – or was it your imagination? An animal
snuffling sound right behind you makes you spin round, but
there is nothing there.
Make a SCOUTING roll at Difficulty 10.
turn to 630
Successful SCOUTING roll
Failed SCOUTING roll
turn to 36
258
Becoming an initiate of the Three Fortunes gives you the
benefit of paying less for blessings and other services the temple
can offer. It costs 75 Shards to become an initiate. You cannot
do this if you are already an initiate of another temple. If you
choose to become an initiate, write The Three Fortunes in the
God box on your Adventure Sheet – and cross off the 75 Shards.
Once you have finished here, turn to 86.
259
Fort Brilon, named after a Sokaran King of the first dynasty, is
the southernmost castle on the fortified wall that keeps out the
rabid, savage manbeasts. What the soldiers fear most is what they
call ‘Death Duty’ – going out on patrols beyond the wall, into
Nerech itself. Roll one die.
Score 1 or 2 Thief steals one item from you (your
choice)
Score 3 or 4 Nothing happens
Score 5 or 6 Find a manbeast’s helmet
When you are ready, you can head:
East into Nerech
The Plains of Howling
Darkness 365
North west to Fort Estgard
turn to 472
West into the farmlands
turn to 548
South to Blessed Springs
turn to 466
260
You are shocked to find that you cannot damage the tomb
guardian at all! You have no choice but to run for the door.
Roll one die – if the result is less than or equal to your Rank,
you make it back out into the Forest – turn to 47. Otherwise,
the whirlwind guardian catches you, and buffets you against the
stone walls until you are dead – your adventures are over unless
you have a resurrection deal.
261
To renounce the worship of Maka, you must pay 15 Shards to
the priesthood by way of compensation.
A man, lying on a pallet, groans, ‘I renounced the goddess,
and look at me now...’ He is ravaged by disease.

26 The War-Torn Kingdom
Do you want to change your mind? If you are determined to
renounce your faith, pay the 15 Shards and delete Maka from
the God box on your Adventure Sheet. When you have finished
here, turn to 141.
262
You charge into the burning building in search of the child’s
mother. You see her lying unconscious at the bottom of the
stairs. Desperately, you try to get to her but a burning beam has
fallen across your way and the smoke is making you choke.
Roll a die and subtract one from the result. If you score less
than or equal to your Rank, turn to 546. Otherwise, turn to
133.
263
You are passing through a wooded glade when you here a
horrendous trumpeting noise. Suddenly, a massive bear-like
form about the size of a large bull appears in front of you. It
looks rather like a huge hairy toad, with a gaping, toothy mouth.
The creature breathes a billowing cloud of noxious,
sulphurous gas at you. You feel your head swim as you start to
fall asleep.
Roll one die, and subtract one from the total. If the total is
greater than your Rank, turn to 491. Otherwise, turn to 72.
264
If there is a tick in the box, turn to 131. If not, put a tick there
now, and read on.
A large island made of reeds and plants, which grow out of a
massive floating bed of kelp, drifts aimlessly across the waters. As
you draw near, you see that a number of people have made their
home there. The inhabitants hail you, and invite you ashore.
Turn to 537.
265
If you have the title Unspeakable Cultist, turn to 404. If not,
read on.
You hear a muffled cry of distress from a dark alley.
Investigate
turn to 361
Walk on
turn to 10
266
‘You rebel swine,’ slurs one of them.
‘Not showing proper respect to the army,’ says another.
‘That can’t go unpunished!’
They wade into you, intent on beating you into submission.
Make a COMBAT roll at Difficulty 12.
turn to 76
Successful COMBAT roll
Failed COMBAT roll
turn to 498
267
You row out into the lake, spread the net, and wait to see what
happens.
After an hour or so, a great bubbling and frothing of the lake
disturbs your solitude. A massive scaly head, the size of your
boat, erupts out of the ochre-coloured water on the end of a
long, sinuous neck. Great luminous green eyes look down at
you. The creature is covered in brown scales, with a bright red
crest running from the head down its thick, ropy neck.

‘I am Vayss the Sea Dragon,’ it says in a rich, creamy voice,
tinged with evil greed. ‘To fish in my lake, you have to pay
tribute – to wit, one silver nugget. Pay now, or face my wrath.’
Hand over a silver nugget
turn to 505
Unable or refuse to pay
turn to 582
268
The goblin-folk swarm over you. You try to put up a fight, but
there are too many of them. Everything goes black...
You wake up, spluttering, face down on a beach! A wave has
just soaked you.
‘Going for a swim, are we?’ asks an old woman who is
gathering shells on the beach. You learn from her that a month
has passed since your adventure in the faery mound, and you can
remember none if it.
If you were wounded, you are now back to full Stamina.
However, you realize you have lost all the money and items you
were carrying. Cross them off your Adventure Sheet. Instead,
you have a wolf pelt that you are wearing, some rat poison
and a silver nugget. The old lady tells you that you are on the
delta of the River Grimm. Turn to 579.
269
You find a natural alcove in the wall of a tunnel. Desperately,
you squeeze yourself into it, and fade into the shadows. The
ratmen come bundling past, whooping and yelling. None of
them spot you, and once they have gone you step out, smiling
to yourself. Turn to 580.
270
You make a swift inspection of the casements, walls and
furnishings, searching for secret panels where treasure might be
concealed. Make a THIEVERY roll at a Difficulty of 12.
turn to 59
Successful THIEVERY roll
Failed THIEVERY roll
turn to 243
271
You arrive at the Pass of Eagles, a thin chasm sliced right
through the Spine of Harkun, as if Tyrnai himself had split the
mountains with his sword.
A vast citadel has been built right across the southern end of
the pass, bottling it up, so that none can travel into Sokara
without passing through the castle. Its white walls and flagtopped towers shine brightly in the sunlight.
Enter the citadel
The Plains of Howling
Darkness 400
Go to the western foothills
turn to 3
The eastern foothills
turn to 244
South on the road to Caran Baru
turn to 201
Take the road to Fort Mereth
turn to 518
272
If you have the codeword Aloft, turn to 649 immediately. If not,
read on.
The chief administrator is not happy to see you.
‘What are you doing here?’ he demands. ‘You should be at
Devil’s Peak, north of here! The storm demons still threaten our
city. Come back when you have succeeded.’
Turn to 100.

The War-Torn Kingdom 27
273
You find the city is in turmoil. A rebel group, loyal to the old
king, led an uprising against the army. Vicious fighting ensued
and the streets ran with blood before the rebellion was brutally
put down. Unfortunately, much damage was done during the
battle. If you own a town house in Yellowport it has been
looted – any possessions you may have cached there have gone.
Make a note of this paragraph number, turn to 300, cross off
anything you had stored there, and return here to read on.
If you have the codeword Artefact and the Book of the
Seven Sages, turn to 40. If not, turn back to 10 and choose
from the options listed there.
274
Desperately, you try to sneak behind a pile of coins but the
dragon spots you.
‘A sneaky little thief, eh! Can’t have that, oh no, not at all!’
hisses the dragon, and it breathes a cloud of billowing acidic gas
all over you. You watch in horror as the coins in front of you
begin to melt, and then the cloud engulfs you.
If you have an amulet of protection, turn to 298.
Otherwise, turn to 212.
275
If you are an initiate it costs only 5 Shards to propitiate the twin
gods of the sea. A non-initiate must pay 20 Shards. Cross off the
money and mark Safety from Storms in the Blessings box on
your Adventure Sheet. The blessing works by allowing you to
ignore any one storm at sea. When you use the blessing, cross it
off your Adventure Sheet. You can only have one Safety from
Storms blessing at any one time. Once it is used up, you can
return to any branch of the temple of Alvir and Valmir to buy a
new one.
Turn to 154.
276
You are wandering across the wilderness of north-western
Sokara. There is a magnificent castle nearby, with many different
pennants flying from its towers.
Visit the castle
turn to 611
Head west to the River Grimm
turn to 123
Travel north to the mountains
turn to 3
Head north-east
turn to 201
Head east into the Bronze Hills
turn to 110
Go south into the Forest of Larun
turn to 47
277
A patrol of militiamen – mercenaries in the pay of the dictator,
General Grieve Marlock – stop you in the street.
If you have the codeword Assassin, turn to 221 immediately.
If not, but you are a Protector of Sokara, they greet you
politely and salute. You return to the city centre without
incident – turn to 10.
Otherwise they decide you will be arrested unless you pay 15
Shards as ‘taxes’. If you refuse, or don’t have 15 Shards, turn to
538. If you hand over the money, cross it off and the militiamen
leave you alone – turn back to 10.
278
You are crossing an open expanse of flinty ground. A few herds
of sheep roam the low hills. Roll a die.

Score 1 or 2 You get lost. Turn to 82.
Score 3 or 4 Nothing happens
Score 5 or 6 A shepherd gives you a wolf pelt
When you are ready, you can go:
To Venefax
turn to 427
West to the Stinking River
turn to 310
North to the lake
turn to 135
East
turn to 87
279
What you have just done is probably a sacrilege, desecrating the
Temple of Tyrnai, but you don’t care. You sneak out of the
temple unseen, and head back to town with your prize. Who
else could have stolen something from right under the noses of
the warrior priests of Tyrnai! Turn to 400.
280
There are too many wolves to contend with. You withdraw
before they get angry. Turn to 3.
281
Your tale of valour and derring-do falls on an unappreciative
audience. The mer-folk slip beneath the waves with snorts of
derision, leaving you alone on the desolate beach. There is
nothing for you to do but return to the clifftop tor.
Take the road to Trefoille
turn to 602
Take the road to Marlock City
turn to 166
282
If you have the codeword Armour, turn to 246 immediately. If
not, read on.
The Temple of Tyrnai, the God of Battle, Chaos and Strife,
is built like a small fortress in one corner of the city, near the
barracks. Its heavy wooden gates are flanked by iron statues of
bull-headed men wielding clubs. The workmanship is uncannily
life-like. Inside, the god is represented by a stone idol of a
jaguar-headed warrior. A beautiful suit of gold chain mail adorns
the idol.
Become an initiate
turn to 636
Renounce worship
turn to 514
Seek a blessing
turn to 107
Make resurrection arrangements
turn to 33
Leave the temple
turn to 400
283
‘What goes on here?’ you ask. ‘Why do you behave so oddly?’
The villagers seem quite frightened of you, but one old
fellow has nerve enough to reply.
‘This banquet is for the ghosts of three travellers who lost
their way in a storm, fell into our millpond and were drowned.’
‘When was this?’ you ask.
‘Seven years since. They come every year on this night, and
if we didn’t placate them with victuals and treasure, there’d be a
mess of trouble.’
‘How do you know that?’
‘Old Megan told us,’ he says. ‘She knows much about such
things.’
Stay out at night and watch for the ghosts
turn to 590
Follow the river north
turn to 576
Follow the river south
turn to 82
Head east into the country side
turn to 278

28 The War-Torn Kingdom
Go west to the main road

turn to 558

284
You find an open window and squeeze through into a long hall.
Your foot, however, snags on a thin wire stretched across the
floor. The wire triggers a loud bell-like gonging that alerts the
temple. You have little choice but to run for your life – warrior
priests swarm out of the temple and the iron statues at its gates
come to life to join in the case.
Roll a die, and subtract one from the total. If the result is less
than or equal to your Rank, turn to 395. Otherwise, turn to
551.
285
You remember a bard in a tavern told you about Damor the
Hermit, and that he knew the secret of the Greatest Story Ever
Told so you ask him about it.
‘Ahh,’ says Damor. ‘I have waited for one such as you.’ He
tells you the secret of the Greatest Story. ‘Well, my young
adventurer, destiny beckons, for it is fated that your life will be
the Greatest Story Ever Told.’
As you consider this, you feel a sense of momentary
enlightenment. Gain one Rank and roll one die. The result is
the number of Stamina points you gain permanently. Also, don’t
forget to increase your Defence by 1 as a result of your gain in
Rank.
‘Right, that’s that,’ says Damor. ‘Now, go away and don’t
come back!’
For a few hours, he lifts the curse that soured your water so
you can make it down again safely. Turn to 244.
286
When you and your crew join the fray, the battle is short-lived.
The pirates are overpowered, though they fight to the last man,
preferring death to enslavement or execution. The Sokaran
leader, an admiral in the navy, thanks you gravely for your help.
He rewards you with a share of the pirates booty – you get 400
Shards and 1 Cargo Unit of spices, if you have room for it in
your ship’s hold. You sail on. Turn to 420.
287
You wait for an hour. At dusk, something emerges. It is the
gorlock, a beast with legs like a bird, a body like a reptile, with
two short forelimbs and a beaked, lizard-like head. You see that
its two legs do have backward pointing feet. The beast heads off
into the hills, and you creep forwards. Turn to 315.
288
You end dead in an alleyway with your throat cut. Your
adventures are over, unless you have a resurrection deal.
289
There is a pause, as if you are both waiting for something to
happen. You realize the gods have not heard your prayer, as
does your enemy. It snarls triumphantly, and slashes you across
the chest. Lose 2 Stamina. If you still live, you have no choice
but to fight it. Turn to 617.

290
If you have the codeword Cutlass, turn to 403 immediately. If
not, but you have the codeword Amcha, turn to 512. Otherwise
read on.
The guildmaster, a tall gaunt man, welcomes you.
‘The guild, in Golnir and Sokara, is plagued by privateers on
the high seas. Amcha One-eye is the worst of these lawless dogs
– he has cost us thousands of Shards! Bring me the head of
Amcha One-eye, and I will reward you! He and his cut-throat
crew operate from the Unnumbered Isles – now called the
Kingdom of the Reavers because of the pirates who have made
their base there. The isles lie to the south.’
If you want to take up the quest, note the codeword Amcha.
When you are ready, turn to 100.
291
Becoming an initiate of Elnir gives you the benefit of paying less
for blessings and other services the temple can offer. It costs 60
Shards to become an initiate. You cannot become an initiate of
Elnir if you are already an initiate of another temple. If you
choose to become an initiate, write Elnir in the God box on
your Adventure Sheet – and remember to cross off the 60
Shards.
Once you have finished here, turn to 316.
292
The local market is very small – only two commodities are
available for trade.
Item
Smoulder fish
Silver nugget

To buy
60 Shards
165 Shards

To sell
55 Shards
150 Shards

When you are finished, turn back to 135.
293
The merchantman has suffered a lot of damage, and the
remaining crewmen are half dead with thirst. You give them
water, and help to repair the ship. The captain, a woman dressed
in multi-coloured feather robes, and an ornate head-dress, is
most grateful. She tells you her name is Moon of Evening and
that she comes from Smogmaw, the city at the Misty Estuary, in
far-off Ankon-Konu. She tells you to visit her, if you are ever in
Smogmaw, so that she can repay the debt.
Note the codeword Aid. You sail on. Turn to 559.
294
Becoming an initiate of Alvir and Valmir gives you the benefit
of paying less for blessings and other services the temple can
offer. It costs 40 Shards to become an initiate. You cannot do
this if you are already an initiate of another temple. If you
choose to become an initiate, write Alvir and Valmir in the God
box on your Adventure Sheet – and remember to cross off the
40 Shards. Once you have finished here, turn to 220.
295
The scorpion men cannot keep up with you, and you leg it all
the way back to the road. Maybe you can come back and try
again later. Turn to 492.

The War-Torn Kingdom 29
296
Make a MAGIC roll at Difficulty 9.
Successful MAGIC roll
Failed MAGIC roll

turn to 494
turn to 352

297
Decide which armour and weapon you will use in the fight.
They will be the ones you are betting with.
Roll a die, and check the table below. The result is the
knight you must fight.
Score 1 or 2 Blue Dragon Knight
COMBAT 3, Defence 8, Stamina 6
Score 3 or 4 Green Dragon Knight
COMBAT 4, Defence 8, Stamina 8
Score 5 or 6 Red Dragon Knight
COMBAT 5, Defence 8, Stamina 10
Because it is not a duel to the death, your weapons are
padded, so any Stamina you lose is not permanent – it is
recovered after the fight.
If you win, turn to 19. If you are reduced to 0 Stamina, you
pass out, turn to 370.
298
The amulet of protection dissolves in a flash of smoke – cross
it off your Adventure Sheet.
It does protect you, however, and you are obscured by the
smoke long enough to get into hiding. The amulet leaves a
residue of yellow powder, which the dragon thinks is all that is
left of you. He scoops it up and puts it into a bottle, beside the
others on his rocky shelf.
Turn to 16.
299
Fort Mereth, named after an ancient hero, is the northernmost
of the forts that guard Sokara from the ravening manbeasts of
Nerech. A fortified wall stretches right across the peninsula. Roll
a die.
Score 1 or 2 Get in a fight with a drunken soldier.
Soldier, COMBAT 4, Defence 6, Stamina 7
If you win, you can take his axe.
Score 3 or 4 Nothing happens
Score 5 or 6 Opportunity to buy a mandolin
(CHARISMA +1) for 100 Shards.
When you are ready, you can travel:
East into Nerech
The Plains of Howling
Darkness 20
South east to Fort Estgard
turn to 472
South into the farmlands
turn to 548
West on the road to Caran Baru
turn to 458
West on the road to the citadel
turn to 518
300
You can leave possessions and money here to save having to
carry them around with you. You can also rest here safely, and
recover any Stamina points you have lost. Record in the box
anything you wish to leave. Each time you return, roll two dice:
Score 2-9
Your possessions are safe
Score 10-11 A thief. All the money left here has gone
Score 12
Burglars! Lose all the possessions you have left
here
Turn to 10.

Items at town house

301
A barque, heading for the Isle of Druids to buy furs, is prepared
to take you. Cross off 15 Shards. The journey, across the Sea of
Whispers, is uneventful, and you dock at the Trading Post on
the island a week or so later. Turn to 195.
302
You can explore:
The poor quarter
The harbour area
The area around the palace

turn to 93
turn to 587
turn to 277

303
Cross the salt and iron filings from your Adventure Sheet. As
fast as you can, you lay out a line of powder in front of you. The
ghoul gives a moaning wail and shrinks back, unable to cross the
line of salt and iron filings. Quickly you run around the ghoul,
encircling it with the powder. The creature lunges for you but it
cannot cross the line – you keep it at bay at every turn. Soon it
is completely trapped. Casually, you sit on a tombstone and wait
for sunrise. When it comes, the ghoul is burnt to a crisp. You
take the rotting, charred head and make your way back into
town.
Note you have a ghoul’s head and turn to 100.
304
He spots you before you can get the jump on him. ‘Stinking
assassin!’ he yells, drawing his sword. You must fight him.
Man with eyepatch, COMBAT 5, Defence 8, Stamina 12
If you win, turn to 92. If you lose, he kills you, and your
adventuring days are over, unless you have a resurrection deal.
305
If there is a tick in the box, turn to 367 immediately. If not, put
a tick there now, and read on.
Make a MAGIC roll at Difficulty 11.
Successful MAGIC roll
turn to 609
turn to 528
Failed MAGIC roll
306
Something doesn’t feel right about the pearls. You realize a
minor enchantment has been put on them – they are in fact tiny
pebbles, made to look like pearls. You squeeze them in the palm
of your hand, and they revert to their natural state.
‘By the twin gods!’ exclaims the young man. ‘Look at that!
They were pebbles all along!’
You stare at him for a long while, fingering your weapon.
The Sea Gypsy shifts uneasily from foot to foot, coughing
nervously and hands you another bag of pearls. This time you
are sure they are real. Note the bag of pearls on your
Adventure Sheet.
You take your leave, and resume your journey. Turn to 85.

30 The War-Torn Kingdom

307
It feels like you are playing the flute for an eternity. But at last
they tire of your music...
You wake up with a scream. You realize you are not aboard
your ship! You find out that you are in the temple of Alvir and
Valmir in Yellowport. A priest tells you that your crew brought
you here three months ago because they could not wake you
from your sleep.
Your ship and crew are long gone now – note that you no
longer own a ship. The priests, however, have been looking
after all your possessions. Among them is a silver flute
(CHARISMA +2). While you have the flute, it adds 2 to your
CHARISMA. Note that it is worth 500 Shards, and that you can
sell it at any market, if you like.
You leave the temple. Turn to 10.
308
The ratmen beat you into unconsciousness, and then toss you
down an underground sewer outlet. You are washed up on the
beaches outside Yellowport, where you come to. You have 1
Stamina point left, and the ratmen have taken all the items and
money that you were carrying. Cross them off your Adventure
Sheet. Groggily, you make your way back into the city. Turn to
10.
309
As you move closer to the sarcophagus, your foot crosses the
edge of the pentacle by a few millimetres – it is enough. The lid
of the sarcophagus explodes into the air with a deafening crash,
and a pillar of black smoke erupts from the stone coffin! The
smoke hurtles towards you, like a miniature tornado.
You must fight the tomb guardian. If you have a weapon
with a +1 COMBAT bonus or greater, turn to 43. Otherwise,
turn to 260.
310
If there is a tick in the box, turn to 614 immediately. If not, read
on.
The Stinking River has cut its way through the high ground
here. On the edge of the chasm that overlooks the river lies the
village of High Therys.
The locals are behaving very oddly. You watch the villagers
lay out a fine feast on the village green. A pig is set roasting on a
spit, loaves of freshly baked bread are piled beside bowls
overflowing with fruits, butter and cheese. Lastly, the richest
merchants of the village bring coffers full of silver which they set
beside the table. To your amazement, instead of sitting down to
dine, the villagers then scurry home and start closing the shutters
on their windows. Turn to 283.
311
He narrows his eyes angrily at your refusal. If your ship is a
galleon and you have a good or excellent crew, turn to 335
immediately. If not, read on.
‘In that case, I have no choice but to seize your ship!’ More
of his men swarm on to your ship, and a battle ensues.
Roll three dice if you are a Warrior, or two dice if you
belong to any other profession. Add your Rank to this roll. If
the crew is poor quality, subtract 2 from the total. If the crew is
good, add 2; if it is excellent, add 3.

Score 0-4
Score 5-9

Calamity. You are killed
Crushing defeat.
Lose one 1-6 Stamina
Score 10-13 A draw
Score 14+
Outright victory

turn to 680
turn to 153
turn to 242
turn to 62

312
‘Nerech’s a dangerous place – even its coastal waters, Cap’n,’
says the first mate. The crew won’t follow you there if they
don’t think you’re good enough to lead them!’
If your Rank is 4 or more, turn to paragraph 50 in The Plains
of Howling Darkness.
If your Rank is less than 4, the first mate advises you against
making the ocean journey. If you take his advice, turn to 507.
If you insist on making the trip, you need to make a
CHARISMA roll at Difficulty 11 to convince the crew to follow
you.
Successful CHARISMA roll
The Plains of Howling
Darkness 50
turn to 507
Failed CHARISMA roll
313
You stand against the wall as the high priestess draws back her
arm, and hurls a stream of daggers at you. Roll two dice. If the
total is higher than your Defence, a dagger hits you and you lose
1-6 Stamina points (roll a die to see how many). If the two dice
score less than or equal to your Defence, the daggers all miss.
Either way, if you survive then you are free to leave. Delete
Lacuna from the God box on your Adventure Sheet and turn to
400.
314
The runes mean nothing to you.
Go down to the beach
Take the road to Trefoille
Take the road to Marlock City

turn to 97
turn to 602
turn to 166

315
With the gorlock out of the way, you are free to investigate its
lair. Inside the cave, you find 500 Shards, a mace and a silver
nugget. Turn to 510.
316
The temple of Elnir is an imposing edifice of grey stone, inlaid
with yellow marbling. Elnir is the god of the sky and of
kingship. He is the ruler of the gods.
‘His dreams are the clouds before a storm,’ says a passing
priest.
Become an initiate of Elnir
turn to 291
Renounce his worship
turn to 143
Seek a blessing
turn to 388
Leave the temple
turn to 10
317
It is the same craft you got the magic spear from, with the silverskinned demon inside – still dead you presume. You examine it
again, but there is nothing else of interest on board. The figure
still lies there unmoving. You sail on. Turn to 85.

The War-Torn Kingdom 31
318
A scorpion man scuttles out of the brush to confront you. It
resembles a huge scorpion, but with a human head and torso. It
holds a sword and shield in its human arms. The creature’s eyes
blaze with an unearthly yellow light, and it scrabbles towards
you with frightening speed, whipping its sting up and around at
you. You must fight it.
Scorpion Man, COMBAT 3, Defence 6, Stamina 8
If you win, turn to 657. If you lose, you are finished, unless you
have a resurrection deal.
319
You give the willow staff to the Oak Druid of the City of
Trees. Cross the willow staff off your Adventure Sheet.
‘Ah, thank you,’ the druid intones, going on, ‘a willow staff,
eh? I see.’
As a reward, the druid lets you train with the City of Trees’
best hunters and trackers. Gain 1 Rank, and roll one die. The
result is the number of Stamina points you gain permanently.
Also, don’t forget to increase your Defence by 1 as a result of
your gain in Rank.
When you are ready, you leave the City of Trees and return
to the Trading Post. Turn to 195.
320
You learn from their conversations that they are from the
jungles of distant Ankon-Konu, the Feathered Lands, and that
they have come here to find new sacrifices for their god, and
new members for their cult. The chef pronounces the cauldron
is ready, and they remove the net that holds you.
Fight
turn to 204
Shout ‘Badogor!’ repeatedly
turn to 101
Join their cult
turn to 61
321
The Black Dragon Knight comes out to meet you. His armour
is of black steel, and you think you can see glowing red eyes
through the slits in his full-face helm. You must fight him.
Black Dragon Knight, COMBAT 5, Defence 9, Stamina 11
If you win, turn to 417. If you lose, you are dead, unless you
have a resurrection deal.
322
The repulsive one recognizes you from your last undersea trip!
Turn to 238.
323
A few locals are discussing recent events – it seems some hideous
beast has made its lair in a cave on the hill that overlooks the
village.
‘It’s a gorlock,’ says a farmer. ‘And it’s amassed quite a bit of
treasure by all accounts – lifted from its victims. A brave
adventurer like yourself could get rich it you killed it. You’d be
doing us a favour as well.’
You ask what a gorlock looks like, but no one knows.
‘Nobody’s come back to tell the tale!’ says the innkeeper.
You leave the tavern. Turn to 510.
324
Heavy black clouds race towards you across the sky, whipping
the waves into a frenzy. The crew mutter among themselves

fearfully. If you have the blessing of Alvir and Valmir, which
confers Safety from Storms, you can ignore the storm. Cross off
the blessing and turn to 559. Otherwise the storm hits with full
fury. Roll one die if your ship is a barque, two dice if it is a
brigantine, or three dice if a galleon. Add 1 to the roll if you
have a good crew; add 2 if you have an excellent crew.
Score 1-3
Ship sinks
turn to 607
Score 4-5
The mast splits
turn to 83
Score 6-20 You weather the storm
turn to 559
325
Your ship, crew and cargo are lost to the deep, dark sea. Cross
them off your Adventure Sheet. Your only thought now is to
save yourself. Roll two dice. If the score is greater than your
Rank, you are drowned – turn to 680. If the score is less than or
equal to your Rank, you manage to find some driftwood, and
make it back to shore. Lose Stamina points equal to the score of
one die and, if you can survive that, turn to 173.
326
You follow the footprints to the mill, where you see an old lady
and two men brushing flour off their clothes.
‘Another successful year’s haunting!’ laughs the woman.
Quietly you creep back and tell the villagers what you have
discovered. Brimming with outrage, they go straight to the mill
and seize the three miscreants.
‘Old Megan!’ cries one of the villagers when he sees who is
the ringleader of the three. ‘So, you’ve been masquerading as a
ghost for these seven years, eh? Well, tomorrow we’ll take you
to the gallows and then you can play the part for real.’
Turn to 671.
327
You have already cleaned the ratmen out of the tunnels below
the city but the old well will make a good cache for equipment
and money that you don’t want to carry with you. It has an
advantage over a town house – there is no risk of burglary or
fire. You may also rest here as long as you like, restoring any lost
Stamina points. Note ‘Secret cache, Yellowport – The War-Torn
Kingdom 327’ on your Adventure Sheet so that you can come
here whenever you are in Yellowport.
To go back to the city above, turn to 10.
Items in cache

328
You are not sure where to start looking for the ghoul, so you
wander around, looking for stories, strange murders – anything
that might put you on its trail.
Make a SCOUTING roll at Difficulty 12.
turn to 419
Successful SCOUTING roll
Failed SCOUTING roll
turn to 360

32 The War-Torn Kingdom
329
‘Still haven’t found him?’ he says. ‘Did you try the Castle of the
Dragon Knights to the west of the Bronze Hills?’ As he turns
and leaves, he says, ‘When you have better tidings, I will return
here.’
You follow him, but he is nowhere to be seen. Turn to 400.
330
You must have Cities of Gold and Glory before you can travel to
Wishport. Turn back to 192 and choose again if you do not
have this book. Otherwise, read on.
You step through the archway. Immediately the symbols on
the stone begin to glow with red-hot energy; your hair stands on
end and your body tingles. A crackling nimbus of blue-white
force engulfs you, the sky darkens and rumbles, thunder and
lightning crash and leap across the heavens. Suddenly, your
vision fades, and everything goes black.
When your sight returns, moments later, you find yourself at
the gates of Wishport. You join the throng of merchants and
peasants making their way into the city. Turn to 217 in Cities of
Gold and Glory.
331
If there is a tick in the box, turn to 627 immediately. If not, put
a tick there now and read on.
You fall into conversation with Pyletes, a kindly old scholarpriest of Molhern, the God of Knowledge.
‘Many years ago, the Book of the Seven Sages was stolen
from us,’ he croaks. ‘News suggests that the scorpion men are in
possession of it. I need a young adventurer like yourself to travel
to Scorpion Bight and return the book to me. In return I can
show you how to improve the skill of your choice.’
If you take up the quest, gain the codeword Artefact. Now
turn back to 10.
332
The quayside at the Trading Post is a simple affair, without the
harbour facilities or the shipwrights of the larger ports. There are
no ships available to buy here, but if you already own a ship,
you can buy and sell cargo.
Cargo
Furs
Grain
Metals
Minerals
Spices
Textiles
Timber

To buy
135 Shards
220 Shards
600 Shards
400 Shards
900 Shards
325 Shards
120 Shards

To sell
130 Shards
210 Shards
570 Shards
310 Shards
820 Shards
285 Shards
100 Shards

Prices are for single Cargo Units. Fill in your current cargo on
the Ship’s Manifest.
You can buy a one-way passage to Yellowport from here at
a cost of 15 Shards – turn to 74.
If you own a ship and wish to set sail, turn to 155. If not,
turn to 195.
333
You are on the east bank of the River Grimm. Roll one die.
Score 1 or 2 A water sprite curses you – lose a Blessing,
if you have one

Score 3 or 4 Nothing happens
Score 5 or 6 Catch a smoulder fish while fishing
When you are ready, you can:
Cross to the west bank
Cities of Gold and Glory 99
Head east into the Forest of Larun
turn to 47
Follow the river north
turn to 123
Follow the river south
turn to 99
334
To renounce the worship of Lacuna, you must pay 40 Shards in
compensation to the shrine.
‘If you forsake the love of the goddess, you will never
survive the rigours of the wilderness,’ warns the priestess.
If you still want to renounce the worship of Lacuna, cross of
the 40 Shards and delete Lacuna from the God box on your
Adventure Sheet.
When you are finished, turn to 195.
335
The captain eyes your crew, and your marines. They are a
tough-looking lot, seasoned sailors and veterans of quite a few
battles at sea.
‘Bah!’ he exclaims, ‘It’s not worth the trouble. I’ll let it pass
this time.’
With that, he returns to his ship, and departs. Turn to 439.
336
You step in, saying, ‘I have a message for King Skabb...’
The ratmen stare at you in amazement.
‘A human! Get it!’ screams Skabb.
The four ratmen charge toward you with a roar, wielding
swords before you can say anything more. Soon they have been
joined by many others and you have little choice but to turn and
flee for your life! Desperately, you race down the sewer tunnels,
with an army of ratmen in hot pursuit.
Lose them in the tunnels
turn to 79
Try some magic
turn to 296
Hide
turn to 127
337
If there is a tick in the box, turn to 37 immediately. If not, put a
tick there now and read on.
The crew have been using a net to catch fish. This time they
have caught a sea centaur, a strange-looking creature, with a top
half like a man, and a bottom half like a sea horse. It struggles
feebly, clutching at the net with webbed fingers, trying to saw it
apart with a long, serrated dagger made of some sea shell.
‘We’ll have to kill it, Cap’n – they’re terrible bad luck to
have on board,’ says the first mate.
One of the sailors is already readying his cutlass.
Give the order to kill it
turn to 522
Spare it
turn to 604
338
You climb down the ladder into a house with herbs and plants
hanging on the walls, and shelves lined with pots, pans and
bottles of all sorts. The healer, an old woman, can cure you of
poison but is unable to cure disease, lift curses or heal wounds. It
will cost you 25 Shards to get cured, if you are poisoned. If you
pay, you can restore all of your affected abilities to normal.
When you are ready, turn back to 427.

The War-Torn Kingdom 33

339
You find a burned-out house in the poor quarter where a trader
has set up a stall, selling ash and debris. The merchant, a
weaselly-looking old woman, is screeching, ‘Ashes, ashes from
the house of a sorceress! Fifteen Shards a packet!’
If you want to buy some, cross off 15 Shards and note the
ashes on your Adventure Sheet. When you are ready, you head
back to the centre of the town. Turn to 100.
340
Make a SCOUTING or THIEVERY roll at Difficulty 10.
Successful SCOUTING or THIEVERY roll
turn to 239
turn to 34
Failed SCOUTING or THIEVERY roll
341
You hear an interesting story about one of Baroness Ravayne’s
knights, in Golnir. Apparently he is plotting against her!
‘Intrigue and treachery in the court of the baroness…’
mutters a man before his voice fades to a whisper.
You leave the tavern. Turn to 400.
342
The alchemist’s shop is lined with potions, jars of exotic
substances, herbs, and so on. Alembics and beakers bubble and
boil, full of strangely-coloured liquids. The alchemist, a tall,
gangly fellow with a beak of a nose, sells potions. You can buy
as many as you can afford – each one costs 50 Shards.
Potion of strength (COMBAT +1)
Potion of comeliness (CHARISMA +1)
Potion of intellect (MAGIC +1)
Potion of godliness (SANCTITY +1)
Potion of stealth (THIEVERY +1)
Potion of nature (SCOUTING +1)
A potion can be used just before an ability roll or a fight to
add 1 to the relevant ability for that one roll or fight only. Each
potion can be used only once. The alchemist can make you a
special potion for 250 Shards, but he needs an ink sac. If you
pay the money, and have an ink sac (cross it off your Adventure
Sheet) he will make you a potion of restoration. It can be
used only once to heal all lost Stamina points, cure poison and
disease. Turn to 510.
343
Becoming an initiate of Alvir and Valmir gives you the benefit
of paying less for blessings and other services the temple can
offer. It costs 40 Shards to become an initiate. You cannot
become an initiate of Alvir and Valmir if you are an initiate of
another temple. If you choose to become an initiate, write Alvir
and Valmir in the God box on your Adventure Sheet and cross
off the 40 Shards. Turn to 154.
344
You must make either a COMBAT or a MAGIC roll at Difficulty
14 to slay him. If you fail the roll, turn to 161 immediately. If
you are successful, read on.
You cut him down, or enchant him so that he obeys your
every command and falls on his own sword. Note the codeword
Assassin.
Hurriedly, you flee the palace. Turn to 216.

345
A ship, impaled on some rocks, is breaking up. Nothing remains
save for rotten timbers. However, a little bottle is bobbing in the
waves. Inside, a message reads, ‘Never sail at night through
rocky waters.’ You sail on. Turn to 209.
346
Your ship, crew and cargo are lost to the deep, dark sea. Cross
them off your Adventure Sheet. Your only thought now is to
save yourself. Roll two dice. If the score is greater than your
Rank, you are drowned – turn to 680. If the score is less than or
equal to your Rank, you manage to find some driftwood, and
make it back to shore. Lose Stamina points equal to the score of
one die roll and, if you can survive that, turn to 453.
347
The road is nearly blocked by wagons and supply convoys. A
troop of soldiers forces its way through the throng – the men
bang heads indiscriminately to clear people out of the way. Roll
a die.
Score 1 or 2 Banged on the head! Lose 1 Stamina
Score 3 or 4 Nothing happens
Score 5 or 6 Mistaken for a beggar – receive 10 Shards
from a passing priest
When you are ready, you can go:
North to Caran Baru
turn to 400
East into the Coldbleak Mountains
turn to 474
South along the road
turn to 387
West into the Forest of Larun
turn to 47
348
You remember what the fishermen say – the root of a certain
seaweed, when crushed, gives off a cloud of toxic fluid. This sap
is harmless to humans but is known to paralyse marine creatures
for a short while. Fortunately, the seaweed grows in abundance
here. You swim down with a handful of the roots, squeezing its
sap into the waters. The hideous creatures shoot towards you,
but are paralysed the instant they enter the cloud of reddish fluid
that billows around you.
You take the golden net (note it on your Adventure Sheet)
and swim back to the Shadar Tor as fast as you can.
Take the road to Trefoille
turn to 602
Take the road to Marlock City
turn to 166
349
You are too fast to get caught, and run off into the shadowy
backstreets of Caran Baru. Cursing your luck, you consider your
next move. Turn to 400.
350
You are restored to life at the Temple of Nagil in Marlock City.
Your Stamina is back to normal score. The possessions and cash
you were carrying at the time of your death are lost – cross them
off your Adventure Sheet. Also remember to delete the entry in
the Resurrection box now it has been used.
‘Nagil has taken you from the barge of souls that sails to the
lands of the dead, and returned you to us,’ declares the high
priest.
You leave the temple. Turn to 100.

34 The War-Torn Kingdom
351
One day, a new slave is brought in to work beside you. Much to
your astonishment, it is Lauria, the thief who left you in the
lurch when you burgled a wizard’s house in Yellowport.
‘Sorry about the last time,’ she says, ‘Business – you know.
Now’s my chance to make it up to you.’
She explains that she has discovered an escape route. This
time, she promises to set up a diversion while you make for a
tunnel where a cave-in has left an opening to the outside. Lauria
says she will meet you later.
Go along with her plan
turn to 662
Escape on your own
turn to 565
352
You mutter an enchantment that is intended to give you the
appearance of a ratman but you get some of the intricate syllables
wrong, and take on the appearance of a particularly wealthy
merchant! At the sight of you, the ratmen redouble their efforts,
and you are overwhelmed by sheer numbers. Turn to 308.
353
The guard recognizes you, and shouts at the top of his lungs,
‘It’s the stinking traitor who killed Nergan. Get him!’
Several archers pop up from behind the rocks overhead, and
start shooting at you. An arrow embeds itself in your shoulder.
Lose 3 Stamina points. If you still live, you realize you made a
bad mistake in coming back here, and you run for your life. As
you climb down, you are shot at again. Roll a die.
Score 1 or 2 You are hit twice, lose 6 Stamina
Score 3 or 4 Hit once, lose 3 Stamina
Score 5 or 6 Missed completely, no wounds
After that, if you are still alive, you make it back to the
foothills of the mountains. Turn to 474.
354
You throw, muttering a prayer for forgiveness to the gods. The
weapon soars through the air. It turns, and catches the sunlight,
sparkling like a flashing star, before sinking beneath the water
with barely a splash. No ripples appear. Your heart feels uplifted,
and the curse is no more! Delete the curse and its effects, and
lose the codeword Appease. Turn to 378.
355
To find out how well your investments have done, roll two
dice. Add 1 to the dice roll if you are an initiate of the Three
Fortunes. Also add 1 if you have the codeword Almanac, add 2 if
you have the codeword Brush, and add 3 if you have the
codeword Eldritch.
Score 2-4
Lose entire sum invested
Score 5-6
Loss of 50%
Score 7-8
Loss of 10%
Score 9-10 Investment remains unchanged
Score 11-12 Profit of 10%
Score 13-14 Profit of 50%
Score 15-16 Double initial investment
Score 17+
Triple initial investment
Now turn to 46, where you can withdraw or leave the sum
written in the box there after adjusting it according to the result
rolled.

356
You are pious enough to be allowed to enter the sacred
grove. You step in and knock on the door.
A kindly old druid opens the door and greets you.
You hand him the oak staff (cross it from your Adventure
Sheet).
‘Thank you!’ says the druid, ‘An oak staff, eh! That’s an
interesting message, to be sure.’
He hands you 50 Shards as payment and a willow staff,
saying, ‘Please take this staff to the Oak Druid in the City of
Trees, on the Isle of Druids – I’m sure he’ll reward you, too.
Good day, and thanks again!’
With that he shuts the door.
You head back into the forest. Turn to 47.
357
The moon begins to rise, making the ghosts seem to glow. They
sit hunched over their feast like vultures, occasionally stirring
their hands in the pile of silver coins and tittering eerily.
Confront them
turn to 23
Stay hidden and follow when they leave
turn to 541
358
‘Welcome to the City of the Trees,’ says a passing woman,
dressed in the garb of a druid.
The city has been built amid the branches of several mighty
oaks. Ladders run up and down the trees to houses that perch
like nests in the branches. You are not allowed into any houses,
but the druids allow you to barter at the market.
Items with no purchase price are not available locally.
Armour
Leather (Defence +1)
Ring mail (Defence +2)

To buy
50 Shards
–

To sell
45 Shards
90 Shards

Weapons (sword, axe, etc)
No COMBAT bonus
COMBAT bonus +1

To buy
50 Shards
250 Shards

To sell
40 Shards
200 Shards

Magical Equipment
Amber wand (MAGIC +1)
Ebony wand (MAGIC +2)
Cobalt wand (MAGIC +3)

To buy
To sell
500 Shards 300 Shards
1000 Shards 800 Shards
– 1600 Shards

Other items
Mandolin (CHARISMA +1)
Silver holy symbol
(SANCITY +2)
Gold compass
(SCOUTING +2)
Rope
Lantern
Silver nugget

To buy
–

To sell
270 Shards

800 Shards

750 Shards

900 Shards

800 Shards

50 Shards
100 Shards
–

45 Shards
90 Shards
150 Shards

When you are finished, if you are a Wayfarer by profession, turn
to 645. Otherwise you leave the City of Trees. Turn to 678.
359
A wandering tinker accosts you, selling lanterns for 50 Shards
each. You can buy no more than three. Turn to 10.

The War-Torn Kingdom 35
360
You have no luck in tracking down the ghoul. The next day,
you hear a rumour doing the rounds in the taverns. A ghoul was
found and destroyed by an adventuring priestess of Tyrnai –
apparently, the temple of Nagil rewarded her handsomely.
Looks like you were pipped at the post. Turn to 100.
361
If there is a tick in the box, turn to 55 immediately. If not, put a
tick there now, and read on.
You find a huddled, moaning figure on the ground. As you
approach, a net is thrown over you from behind. You glimpse a
face painted with white bone dust and big red circles around the
eyes just before a terrific blow on the back of your head slams
you into unconsciousness. Turn to 508.
362
The sea dragon dives deep to the bottom of the lake. You are
pulled along at a terrific rate through the murky waters. You
think your lungs are about to burst when at last the creature
surges upwards, breaking the surface.
You find yourself in a cave inside a rocky island, somewhere
on the surface of the lake. A hole in the roof lets in a shaft of
bright sunlight, that reflects off the water, casting dappled yellow
light all over the walls.
Part of the cave is dry ground, heaped with the dragon’s
treasure hoard – sparkling coins, swords, armour, and the like.
You notice a rocky ledge, lined with a number of bottles, full of
yellow dust.
The dragon pulls itself on top of its hoard – you have a few
seconds to try to hide. Make a THIEVERY roll at a Difficulty of
10.
Successful THIEVERY roll
turn to 16
Failed THIEVERY roll
turn to 274
363
You collapse a rotting beam, just inside the cabin. The roof falls
in, and a cloud of debris fills the water, obscuring you
completely. You grab the gems, but it is not long before the
magic of the sea centaurs takes you over. You live on for a
hundred years, as a sea centaur. Your adventure ends here.
You can, however, start afresh with a new character. First
make sure to erase all ticks, codewords, and Adventure Sheet
details in all your Fabled Lands books. You can begin at 1 in any
of the books of the series.
364
‘The Violet Ocean’s a dangerous place, Cap’n’, says the first
mate. ‘The crew probably won’t follow you there if they don’t
think you’re good enough!’
If your Rank is 4 or more, turn to paragraph 66 in Over the
Blood-Dark Sea.
If your Rank is less than 4, the first mate advises you against
the ocean journey. If you take his advice, turn to 85.
If you insist on making the trip, you need to make a
CHARISMA roll at Difficulty 11 to convince the crew to follow
you.
Successful CHARISMA roll
Over the Blood-Dark Sea 66
Failed CHARISMA roll
turn to 85

365
Sul Veneris wakes up the moment you remove the stake. He
rips the other stakes out of the ground, and soars into the air,
with a shout like a clap of thunder. He swings his hammer
around his head, and bolts of lightning leap forth to strike the
storm demons.
As he rises into the clouds in pursuit of the demons, a bolt of
lightning streaks from his hand and strikes you full force! You
are thrown backwards but to your amazement you are unhurt.
In fact, you feel empowered by the blast. Gain 3 points of
Stamina permanently.
You have freed Sul Veneris, the Lord of Thunder. Record
the codeword Aloft before climbing down to the bottom. Turn
to 658.
366
‘The Violet Ocean’s a dangerous place, Cap’n’, says the first
mate. ‘The crew probably won’t follow you there if they don’t
think you’re good enough!’
If your Rank is 4 or more, turn to paragraph 66 in Over the
Blood-Dark Sea.
If your Rank is less than 4, the first mate advises you against
the ocean journey. If you take his advice, turn to 439.
If you insist on making the trip, you need to make a
CHARISMA roll at Difficulty 11 to convince the crew to follow
you.
Successful CHARISMA roll
Over the Blood-Dark Sea 66
Failed CHARISMA roll
turn to 439
367
You have attempted to steal the chain mail before. This time,
security has been doubled with warrior priests of Tyrnai in
abundance. Inside the temple, there are two more of the bullheaded iron golem guards, and you realize there is no way you
can succeed.
You head back to the city centre. Turn to 400.
368
Becoming an initiate of Maka gives you the benefit of paying
less for blessings and other services the temple can offer. It costs
50 Shards to become an initiate. You cannot become an initiate
of Maka if you are already an initiate of another temple. If you
choose to become an initiate, write Maka in the God box on
your Adventure Sheet – and remember to cross off the 50
Shards. Once you have finished here, turn to 141.
369
If you have a boar’s tusk, turn to 612. If not, read on.
The priestess, dressed in ceremonial leather armour, and
carrying a silver bow, recognizes you, and welcomes you. She
offers you the usual services.
Become an initiate of Lacuna
turn to 618
Renounce the worship of Lacuna
turn to 334
Seek a blessing
turn to 52
Leave the temple
turn to 195
370
You come round, back to your Stamina score before the fight
started. You lose the weapon and armour you were using – cross
them off your Adventure Sheet. The Dragon Knights
compliment you on your bravery.

36 The War-Torn Kingdom
‘Until the next time!’ says your recent opponent.
You take your leave, somewhat bruised. Turn to 276.
371
With a war cry, you leap to the attack. Your first blow rips away
a great chunk of its body!
Suddenly, a voice pipes up from inside the Gob-gobbler.
‘Help, help, lads, this one’s a real fighter!’
You realize the Gob-gobbler is a man disguised as a monster.
But then two thugs – bandits, by the look of them – run out of
the woods to attack you. You must fight them one at a time.
First bandit, COMBAT 3, Defence 4, Stamina 6
Second bandit, COMBAT 2, Defence 3, Stamina 7
If you win, turn to 422. If you lose, you are dead, unless you
have a resurrection deal.
372
Cross off the 10 Shards. A sleek yacht takes you on a troublefree journey to Yellowport. Turn to 10.
373
If you are an initiate it costs only 10 Shards to purchase Tyrnai’s
blessing. A non-initiate must pay 25 Shards. Cross off the money
and mark COMBAT in the Blessings box on your Adventure
Sheet. The blessing works by allowing you to try again when
you make a failed COMBAT roll. It is good for only one reroll.
When you use the blessing, cross it off your Adventure Sheet.
You can have only one COMBAT blessing at any one time. Once
it is used up, you can return to any branch of the temple of
Tyrnai to buy a new one.
When you are finished, turn to 526.
374
You sense that sorcery is afoot. You make a few magical
divinations which tell you that the path is cursed: it will sour the
water supply of anyone that travels upon it. However, you can
tell that the curse affects only the path. There is just enough
room to squeeze your way up beside it, hugging the rock face.
You find your water returns to a state that is drinkable.
Eventually, the path leads to a bubbling well of springwater
in the rocks, just at the opening of a cave. You refill your
canteen, then explore the cave. Turn to 232.
375
You tell the provost you have important news, best heard by
him alone. He takes you to a side chamber without his guards.
If you want to attempt to slay the provost marshal, turn to
344. Otherwise, you tell him some old news and he throws you
out – turn to 10.
376
You manage to slip out of your chains, and sneak off into the
tunnels. You make it to the outside, but a troop of guards and a
pack of dogs finally track you down. The fate of all escaped
slaves is death – you are executed. Your adventuring days are
over, unless you have a resurrection deal.
377
The road between Marlock City and Trefoille is well maintained
with regular guard posts. The Sokarans are nothing if not
efficient. Roll a die.

Score 1 or 2
Bad omen – lose one Blessing
Score 3 or 4
Uneventful journey
Score 5 or 6
Find a sword (ordinary weapon)
When you are ready, you can go:
To Trefoille
turn to 250
To Marlock City
turn to 100
North into the Curstmoor
turn to 175
378
You find a wide pool of bubbling, electric blue water. It gives
off a strong invigorating scent, like crushed pine leaves.
If you have the codeword Appease, turn to 593 immediately.
If not, but you have a vial of yellow dust, turn to 556.
Otherwise, you can bathe in the waters, turn to 598, or leave,
turn to 510.
379
The scholar is in no condition to resist now that your work has
been done for you by the ruffians. You take his purse. Inside
you find 100 Shards. Happy with a good bit of banditry, you
decide to call it a night. Turn to 100.
380
‘By the Larcenous One!’ exclaims the high priest joyfully. ‘You
are indeed an accomplished rogue.’
Erase the golden chain mail of Tyrnai from your
Adventure Sheet. The high priest teaches you secret knowledge
of Sig, the God of Deception. You get a 300 Shard reward and
you go up 1 Rank. Roll one die – the result is the number of
Stamina points you gain permanently. Also, don’t forget to
increase your Defence by 1 as a result of your gain in Rank.
If you are under Tyrnai’s curse, turn to 564. Otherwise, turn
to 100.
381
You dart down a side tunnel but are horrified to meet several
ratmen coming to meet you while your pursuers close in
behind. You are caught in a vice and, though you fight with
desperate bravery, you are overcome. Turn to 308.
382
‘Fishing?’ you ask, ‘Surely nothing can live in these poisonous
waters.’
The fisherman shows you a bright yellow fish with grey
stripes, saying, ‘Only the smoulder fish has adapted to the
sulphur – it feeds on the local seaweed. Mind you the smoulder
fish is totally inedible.’
‘Why hunt it then?’
‘Well, each fish is worth quite a bit to sorcerers and the like.
We have a standing quota to fill each month for the magical
colleges at Dweomer. The sulphur-laden organs burn in a
particular way – a very useful ingredient in certain magics, I am
told.’
‘And where does all this sulphur come from?’
‘Scholars say there is an underground volcanic vent. Others
believe it is the breath of the sea dragon. Personally, I always
drop a silver nugget into the waters once a month to appease the
dragon, for his favourite metal is silver.’
Turn to 135.

The War-Torn Kingdom 37
383
After a while Fourze circles around, heading across country.
Make a SCOUTING roll at Difficulty 9.
turn to 585
Successful SCOUTING roll
Failed SCOUTING roll
turn to 263
384
Guildmaster Vernon is pleased to see you. You hand him the
copper amulet and he exclaims joyfully, ‘The amulet of King
Skabb! Well done, indeed!’
Cross the copper amulet off your Adventure Sheet. You
are given 450 Shards as a reward.
Note the codeword Acid and turn to 10.
385
The king is taken totally by surprise, and you cut him down. He
falls dead at your feet.
‘Long live General Marlock,’ you mutter under your breath.
You take the king’s royal ring as proof of your act. Note it
on your Adventure Sheet and get the codeword Ark.
Although you manage to talk your way out of the stockade,
the body is discovered as you are heading down the mountain
path. Vengeful soldiers set off in pursuit.
Make a SCOUTING or a THIEVERY roll (your choice) at
Difficulty 9.
Successful SCOUTING or THIEVERY roll
turn to 167
turn to 230
Failed SCOUTING or THIEVERY roll
386
There is no sign of Lauria, but you do find an open trunk and a
window with a knotted rope dangling from it. So. she found the
treasure and then made her escape, leaving you behind to face
the music. You allow yourself a tight-lipped smile as you hear
her voice echoing leadenly from far off in the fog: ‘There’s a
thief at Master Talanexor’s house! Quick!’
You’ll settle the score with Lauria at a future date. For now,
you just have time to escape before a patrol arrives. Gain the
codeword Ashen and turn to 10.
387
You are on a road between Caran Baru and Trefoille. You
come to the Weary Pilgrim Tavern, a waystation between the
cities. The tavern costs you 1 Shard a day. Each day you spend
here you can recover 1 Stamina point if injured, up to the limit
of your normal unwounded Stamina score.
If you want to spend 3 Shards buying drinks all round so you
can glean some rumours, turn to 666. To leave, you can go:
South
turn to 558
North
turn to 347
West into the Forest of Larun
turn to 47
East to the lake
turn to 135
388
If you are an initiate it costs only 10 Shards to purchase Elnir’s
blessing. A non-initiate must pay 25 Shards. Cross off the money
and mark CHARISMA in the Blessings box on your Adventure
Sheet. The blessing works by allowing you to try again when
you make a failed CHARISMA roll. It is good for only one reroll.
When you use the blessing, cross it off your Adventure Sheet.
You can have only one CHARISMA blessing at any one time.

Once it is used up, you can return to any branch of the temple
of Elnir to buy a new one.
Turn to 316.
389
Driving one of the creatures back with your sword, you leap on
to the forecastle shouting, ‘To me, men!’ They rally around you,
organizing themselves into a fighting unit and a battle ensues.
You must fight one ker’ilk.
Ker’ilk, COMBAT 4, Defence 9, Stamina 8
If you win, turn to 519. If you lose, you end up as food for
ker’ilk young – unless you have a resurrection deal.
390
The horses rush past you. They seem to gallop through the air.
whinnying and neighing, bellowing at the twilight sky. Soon
they disappear from your sight. You make camp, and the next
day continue your journey.
Go north across country
turn to 560
Head east to the road
turn to 558
Go to Trefoille
turn to 250
Go to Marlock City
turn to 100
Head west towards the River Grimm
turn to 99
391
Get the codeword Apple.
‘Umm, well, I suppose I could let one such as you through,’
says the tree thoughtfully. Then it uproots itself with a great
tearing sound, and shuffles out of the way. ‘There you go!’ says
the tree, ‘You may pass.’
You walk through the thorn bush gate. Beyond, you find
several huge oak trees whose branches are so big that they are
able to support the homes of many people. Turn to 358.
392
You pass your hands over the mad beggar, mumbling a prayer to
the gods.
The beggar cries out, ‘A cloud has been lifted from my
mind! The curse is dispelled! I remember all!’
His name, he tells you, is Akradai, the Azure Prince of the
Horde of the Thundering Skies, nomads of the steppes. ‘I was
cursed with madness by Shazir of the Ruby Citadel but now
you have cured me!’ he says. ‘I am forever in your debt!’
He leaves, with a parting cry, ‘Seek me on the steppes and I
shall reward you.’
Gain the codeword Azure. Turn to 10.
393
You hear a sound behind you. You spin around just as another
man, a beefy, disreputable-looking thug, comes for you with a
long dagger. ‘Get him!’ yells the man with the eyepatch. You
must fight.
Thug, COMBAT 3, Defence 6, Stamina 13
If you lose, you are dead, unless you have a resurrection deal. If
you win, turn to 476.
394
When you and your crew join the fray, the battle is short-lived.
The Sokarans are overpowered, and taken as slaves by the
pirates.

38 The War-Torn Kingdom
The pirate captain, Verin Crookback, is a short, bull-chested
man. He walks like a hunchback, because of a crippling wound
he took to the shoulder blade, many years ago. He thanks you
for your help and rewards you with a share of the booty of the
Sokaran war ships – only 50 Shards. He also hands you a silver
medallion.
‘If you ever go to the Kingdom o’ the Reavers,’ he says,
‘flash this about – one of the lads’ll recognize it. Villains, the lot
of them, but they’ll honour one who carries the medallion.
Someone will bring you to me – I’ll help you, if you need it.’
The pirates take their leave, and you sail on. Turn to 420.
395
You make it out of the temple with your pursuers close behind.
However, you manage to lose them amid the alleys of Caran
Baru, hiding inside a barrel of rotting food – garbage from the
army barracks. You emerge stinking, but safe. Turn to 400.
396
The market square in Marlock City is huge. Armed guards stand
around the edge to enforce General Marlock’s will. Merchants
and traders from all over Harkuna hawk their goods in a dozen
languages.
Items with no purchase price listed are not available locally.
The general has imposed a sales tax on all trade; the tax has been
included in all the prices listed.
Armour
Leather (Defence +1)
Ring mail (Defence +2)
Chain mail (Defence +3)
Splint armour (Defence +4)
Plate armour (Defence +5)
Heavy plate (Defence +6)

To buy
To sell
70 Shards
25 Shards
120 Shards
70 Shards
220 Shards 160 Shards
420 Shards 340 Shards
– 700 Shards
– 1420 Shards

Weapons (sword, axe, etc)
No COMBAT bonus
COMBAT bonus +1
COMBAT bonus +2
COMBAT bonus +3

To buy
70 Shards
270 Shards
–
–

Magical Equipment
Amber wand (MAGIC +1)
Ebony wand (MAGIC +2)
Cobalt wand (MAGIC +3)

To buy
To sell
520 Shards 380 Shards
– 780 Shards
– 1580 Shards

Other items
Mandolin (CHARISMA +1)
Lockpicks (THIEVERY +1)
Holy symbol (SANCTITY +1)
Compass (SCOUTING +1)
Rope
Lantern
Climbing gear
Bag of pearls
Rat poison
Silver nugget

To buy
300 Shards
300 Shards
220 Shards
520 Shards
70 Shards
120 Shards
120 Shards
–
80 Shards
–

To return to the city centre, turn to 100.

To sell
20 Shards
180 Shards
380 Shards
780 Shards

To sell
250 Shards
250 Shards
80 Shards
430 Shards
25 Shards
70 Shards
70 Shards
80 Shards
30 Shards
190 Shards

397
Your ship is thrown about like flotsam and jetsam. When the
storm subsides, you take stock. Much has been swept overboard
– you lose 1 Cargo Unit, if you had any, of your choice. Also,
the ship has been swept way off course and the mate has no idea
where you are. ‘We’re lost at sea, Cap’n!’ he moans.
Turn to 90.
398
If there is a tick in the box, turn to 225 immediately. If not, put
a tick there now, and read on.
You make your way up the hill. After a while, you spot a
cave set into the hillside, a little further up. Judging by the
human bones, dumped near the entrance, this is the lair of a
dangerous beast. Fresh tracks, of some large, two-legged, threetoed creature, lead from the cave into some nearby trees. It
seems it is not home, at the moment.
If you have the codeword Apache, turn to 463 immediately.
If not, make a MAGIC or SCOUTING roll (your choice) at
Difficulty 11.
Successful SCOUTING or MAGIC roll
turn to 577
Failed SCOUTING or MAGIC roll
turn to 486
399
You were asked by the Governor of Yellowport to assassinate
Nergan Corin. It is a good time to make the attempt. If you
want to have a go, make a COMBAT or a THIEVERY roll at
Difficulty 12. If you succeed, turn to 385. If you fail, turn to
581.
If you would rather join the rebels and kill the governor
instead, record the codeword Ambuscade. If you join the rebels,
when you are ready, the king wishes you well, and you are led
out of the stockade and back down to the foothills of the
Coldbleak Mountains. Turn to 474.
400
Caran Baru is a medium-sized town, that acts as a way-station
between the citadel to the north, and the rich towns of the
south. It is a garrison town; many supplies, arms, and soldiers
move through Caran Baru on the north-south trail. Shops,
temples, traders, and the like have sprung up here to serve the
needs of the military. There is also a sizeable mining community,
for the mines of Sokara lie in the Bronze Hills, just outside
town, and a slave market where poor unfortunates, sold into
slavery, are bought for work in the mines.
You can buy a town house in Caran Baru for 200 Shards.
Owning a town house gives you a place to rest, and to store
equipment. If you buy one, tick the box by the town house
option.
If you have the codeword Barnacle, turn to 418 immediately.
Otherwise, pick from the following options.
Visit the marketplace
turn to 215
Visit the merchants’ guild
turn to 112
Visit the slave market
turn to 473
Visit the temple of Tyrnai
turn to 282
Visit the temple of Lacuna
turn to 615
Visit the temple of the Three Fortunes
turn to 86
Visit your town house ! (if box ticked)
turn to 177
Visit the Blue Griffon Tavern
turn to 184
Follow the road north to the citadel
turn to 201
Go west into the Bronze Hills
turn to 110

The War-Torn Kingdom 39
Travel north east into the country
Take the east road to Fort Mereth
Head south east into the mountains
Take the south road

turn to 60
turn to 458
turn to 474
turn to 347

401
Cross off the 60 Shards. The captain gives you a satisfied smile.
‘Harbour duties all paid up. You may proceed,’ he says
mockingly.
He and his men leave the ship. Several of your crew curse or
spit in disgust.
You sail on. Turn to 439.
402
Your ship draws away, leaving the Sokarans behind. Your crew
jeer at them, and you spot the captain shaking his fist at you in
rage, before they disappear from sight. Turn to 439.
403
If there is a tick in the box, turn to 229 immediately. If not, put
a tick there now and read on.
You dump the head of Amcha One-Eye on the guildmaster’s
desk. He stares at it in horror for a moment and then a look of
joy crosses his features.
‘At last! We are rid of that scourge of commerce! Well done,
well done indeed!’
Cross Amcha’s head off your Adventure Sheet. The
guildmaster pays for you to have special training. You can
choose which area you would like to improve – you gain one
point for one ability of your choice (for example, +1 COMBAT).
When you are ready, you return to the city. ‘Come back
anytime,’ yells the guildmaster as you go. Turn to 100.
404
One of the cultists of Badogor the Unspoken is feigning distress
in the hope of luring a sacrificial victim for dinner. He sits up
when he recognizes you as a member of the cult, and says, rather
disconsolately, ‘Ah, hallo friend. We were hoping for a big
banquet tonight.’
Two more cultists step from the shadows, holding a net. ‘Oh
well, perhaps another will come along,’ one of them says
optimistically.
They treat you as one of their own – even giving you a share
of the cult’s recent income. You get 20 Shards.
‘May you never speak his name,’ they intone in parting.
You return to the city centre. Turn to 10.
405
The merchants’ guild of Yellowport is a large building of
granite, plushly decorated inside to show off its wealth. Here
you can bank your money for safe-keeping – or invest it in guild
enterprises in the hope of making a profit. You hear that the
guildmaster is looking for adventurers.
Visit the guildmaster
turn to 122
Make an investment
turn to 46
Check on investments
turn to 355
Deposit or withdraw money (note
that you are in Yellowport)
turn to 605
Return to the town centre
turn to 10

406
You know that the Book of the Seven Sages that Pyletes
wanted you to get lies within the mound. If you don’t want to
go for it now, you can leave by turning to 492. Otherwise, you
wait until nightfall, then creep towards the mound.
Make a THIEVERY roll at Difficulty 9.
Successful THIEVERY roll
turn to 449
turn to 139
Failed THIEVERY roll
407
You hide in the kitchen pantry, and then, disguised as a kitchen
scullion, sneak out unnoticed. The skill and daring of your
exploit will be forever remembered! Long live the rightful king!
Turn to 10.
408
You decline. They look at you inscrutably, and then sink
beneath the waves with the body of their companion. Turn to
507.
409
Becoming an initiate of Nagil gives you the benefit of paying
less for services the temple can offer. You cannot do this if you
are already an initiate of another temple. To become an initiate
you have to pass a priestly exam.
If you want to take the exam, make a SANCTITY roll at
Difficulty 10 unless there is a tick in the above box, in which
case it is at Difficulty 15.
If you succeed, you become an initiate – write Nagil in the
God box on your Adventure Sheet and turn to 71.
If you fail, put a tick in the box (unless one is already there)
and turn to 100.
410
‘Oh, what a load of rotten leaves!’ exclaims the tree. ‘Anyone
can see you’re as bad as the next human. In fact, I’d say you’re
probably a... a lumberjack! Now, get lost!’
Leave the forest
turn to 678
Attack the tree
turn to 570
411
The high priest tells you that the golden net of the twin gods
has been stolen. The repulsive ones have taken it to their palace
beneath the sea in the Sunken City of Ziusudra. The repulsive
ones worship the fish-god Oannes, who struggles with Alvir and
Valmir for control of the sea.
‘We must have that golden net, or the repulsive ones will
use it against us. If you return it to us, we will reward you,’ says
the high priest. ‘The Sunken City lies under the coastal waters
off the Shadar Tor.’
If you take the mission, gain the codeword Anchor. When
you are finished, turn to 220.
412
You are on the cobbled road between Yellowport and Trefoille.
You meet a few merchants and pilgrims, but all in all it is an
uneventful journey.
Head for Yellowport
turn to 10
Head for Trefoille
turn to 250

40 The War-Torn Kingdom

413
You are so devout that the king’s spell cannot affect you for
more than a few seconds. The queen, recognizing your faith in
the gods, thanks you for entertaining them.
You wake up in the cabin aboard your ship. You are musing
about the strange nature of your dream when you realize that
you have something in your hand. It is a silver flute
(CHARISMA +2). While you have the flute, it adds 2 to your
CHARISMA. Note that it is worth 500 Shards, and you can sell it
at any market if you like. Turn to 507.
414
Haylie runs into her mother’s arms for a tearful reunion. Lynn,
the mother, gives you a suit of chain mail (Defence +3) and a
sword (an ordinary weapon).
‘These have been in the family for generations – it’s all I
have to give,’ she says.
Fourze is hauled off to the local magistrate for judgment – he
will probably be sold into slavery.
Gain the codeword Attar and turn to 427.
415
You cannot continue. You sink to your knees, gasping for water
and pass out. Death is not long in coming. It is all over, unless
you have a resurrection deal.
416
‘The Violet Ocean’s a dangerous place, Cap’n’, says the first
mate. ‘The crew probably won’t follow you there if they don’t
think you’re good enough!’
If your Rank is 4 or more, you can take the ship south west,
turn to paragraph 77 in Over the Blood-Dark Sea. Or you can
head south east, turn to paragraph 66 in Over the Blood-Dark Sea.
If your Rank is less than 4, the first mate advises you against
the ocean journey. If you take his advice, turn back to 559.
If you insist on making the trip, you need to make a
CHARISMA roll at Difficulty 12 to convince the crew to follow
you. If you succeed, you can take the ship south west, turn to
paragraph 77 in Over the Blood-Dark Sea, or south east – turn to
66 in Over the Blood-Dark Sea. If you fail, turn back to 559.
417
The other knights are amazed by your skill, and they seem quite
pleased that the Black Dragon Knight is dead.
‘He was an evil man,’ says the Green Dragon Knight.
You take the black dragon shield – note it on your
Adventure Sheet. As you watch, the rest of your opponent’s
body dissolves into a foul-smelling smoke, armour and all.
Lose the codeword Axe.
You leave the castle. Turn to 276.
418
You have heard that the man with the velvet eyepatch should be
in Caran Baru. If you want to search for him now, turn to 117.
If not, turn to 400 and choose from the options there.
419
The trail of gruesome murders, and tales of terror leads you to
an old cemetary in a near-deserted part of the old quarter. It is

early morning, a few hours before dawn, so you haven’t much
time before the ghoul goes into hiding.
At the gates of the cemetary, you find a small girl, hunched
over, sobbing. When she sees you, she backs away, terrified.
Make a CHARISMA roll at Difficulty 10.
Successful CHARISMA roll
turn to 553
turn to 45
Failed CHARISMA roll
420
Your ship is sailing in the coastal waters beside Marlock City.
You notice an unusual number of Sokaran warships patrolling
the area.
‘The pirates are getting bolder and bolder – that’s why the
navy’s out in force,’ says the first mate.
Sail west
Cities of Gold and Glory 119
Sail into Marlock City
turn to 142
Sail east along the coast
turn to 120
Sail south into the Violet Ocean
turn to 502
421
The storm demons shrink back with a wailing, mournful cry,
like wind in the trees. The power of your faith is enough to
repel them. You work free one of the stakes holding down Sul
Veneris. Turn to 365.
422
The bandits are dead. The man in the suit surrenders. It is
Fourze, the master of the market. He terrified people with the
monster disguise, and used a large pair of bellows full of gas to
put his victims to sleep. Then he sold them to a slaver from
Caran Baru, for work in the slave mines. You find Haylie, and
several other villagers in the cellar of an old farm nearby.
‘Don’t hurt me,’ begs Fourze, ‘I’m only trying to make a few
Shards!’
‘What! By selling your own people into slavery!’ says one of
the villagers, giving him a good kick.
You lead them back to Venefax. Turn to 414.
423
The ratmen lie defeated at your feet. You find 15 Shards on the
bodies, and a note which says: ‘Parti! Kitchuns. Tonite. Rank
and file rats only – no offsirs and no king allowed!’
The rest of the cavern is bare, so you press on down the
tunnels ahead.
After a while you come to a cleaner area of the sewers, a part
of the old city now buried under Yellowport. It dates from the
period when all of Harkuna was ruled by the Masked Ones of
Uttaku, before the people overthrew them.
You come to two rotten wooden doors. Names have been
scratched on to them by some half-literate ratman. One says
‘Thrown Rum’; the other says ‘Kitchuns’. You can hear gravelly
rat voices from behind both doors.
Enter the ‘kitchuns’
turn to 572
Enter the ‘thrown rum’
turn to 202
424
The ship’s captain says, ‘I’ll take you but you should be warned
– it’s a dangerous place we’re travelling to. You’d better be sure
you can handle it – if you’re not at least a master of your
profession, I’d advise against. It’s up to you, though.’

The War-Torn Kingdom 41
You must have Over the Blood-Dark Sea to travel to Copper
Island. If you still want to go, cross off the 30 Shards and turn to
99 in that book. If you decide not to go, turn back to 142 if you
are in Marlock City or 555 if you are in Yellowport.

your dice rolls. Cross the rat poison off your Adventure Sheet
after use.
Two ratmen, COMBAT 8, Defence 11, Stamina 12
If you win, turn to 145. If you lose, turn to 308.

425
The woman tells you her name is Lauria. She leads you stealthily
through winding cobblestoned streets to a town house standing
at the back of a small tree-lined square.
A yellowish fog is descending with the coming of night.
Lauria waits until it is thick enough to shroud your activities
from any stray passersby, then jemmies a downstairs window.
Within seconds the two of you are inside.
‘You’ve got the easy job,’ she says. ‘Stay down here and
keep watch. The stuff we’re after is upstairs.’
She bounds silently up to the next floor.
Stay on watch
turn to 534
Search the ground floor
turn to 270

429
The gloomy wreck is filled with coral-encrusted skeletons of its
drowned crew. You find the captain’s cabin. Inside, a figure still
sits in a chair, a chest of gems at its feet. With a thrill of horror,
you realize it is a ghost, an undead remnant of a pirate captain,
steeped in evil, its nacreous, fish-gnawed flesh still pulsing with a
kind of half-life.
Swim straight in and grab the chest
turn to 89
Try to steal it without being seen
turn to 363

426
‘Ah, I see that you are a student of the arcane arts,’ says Oliphard
the Wizardly. ‘There is something I need – if you can get it for
me I will teach you how to advance as a mage. It was Vayss the
Sea Dragon who turned me into powder. He stole my magic
chest in which I store all my magical equipment. Without it, I
am virtually powerless. Meet me in Trefoille when you have it.’
‘Where is Vayss?’ you ask.
‘Why, in the Lake of the Sea Dragon, of course,’ he replies.
Record the codeword Avenge. As he leaves, Oliphard gives
you an amulet of protection. Note it on your Adventure
Sheet. Now turn to 378.
427
If you have the codeword Attar, turn to 578 immediately. If not,
read on.
Venefax is a strange-looking village. It looks like a single
gigantic building. All the houses are joined together to form a
jumbled mass, and none of the houses have doors – the only
way in is through holes in the rooftop. Ladders lead up to the
roof, which in effect forms a network of streets that the
inhabitants travel across to get to certain buildings.
‘We had to build it that way, for defence,’ says a passing
farmer. ‘You see, the scorpion men from the south cannot
climb, so they can’t get inside the town!’
Visit the market
turn to 152
Visit the Scorpion’s Sting Tavern
turn to 497
Visit the village healer
turn to 338
Chat to villagers on the rooftop
turn to 63
Go south into Scorpion Bight
turn to 492
Take the road north to Blessed Springs
turn to 87
South west on the road to Yellowport
turn to 621
North into open countryside
turn to 278
428
With a martial cry you draw your weapon and charge. You
manage to cut down two of the ratmen before they can react.
The remaining two officers draw their swords while King Skabb
ducks down behind his throne. You must fight them, both at
once, as if they were one opponent. If you have some rat
poison, you can smear it on your weapon blade to add 3 to

430
You are sailing in the waters around Scorpion Bight.
‘I wouldn’t want to put into land in these parts,’ says your
navigator. ‘The scorpion men’ll take all we’ve got, and our lives
too, given half a chance!’
Roll two dice:
Score 2-4
Storm
turn to 586
Score 5-7
An uneventful voyage
turn to 85
Score 8-9
A ship of bizarre design
turn to 56
Score 10-12 A floating island
turn to 264
431
You notice that Oliphard has erected his pavillion over a
verdigris trapdoor set into the floor.
‘Ah, you have the key, I see!’ says Oliphard. ‘Please, be my
guest – use the door.’
You open it up and climb some short stairs into a square
chamber with three doors.
‘They are doors of teleportation – step through and you will
be taken to whatever land is displayed!’ says Oliphard.
The first door leads to a teeming city of merchants –
Metriciens in Golnir. Turn to paragraph 48 in Cities of Gold and
Glory if you enter this door.
The second door leads to a huge mountain – Sky Mountain
in the Great Steppes, far to the north. Turn to paragraph 185 in
The Plains of Howling Darkness if you enter this door.
The third door leads to Dweomer, the City of Sorcerers, on
Sorcerers’ Isle. Turn to paragraph 100 in Over the Blood-Dark Sea
if you open this door.
If you don’t want to step through any of the doors, turn to
656 and choose again.
432
The militiamen are down. The tall gentleman watches you like a
snake with its eyes on a mongoose. You have no time to bother
with him now.
‘We’ll meet again, perhaps,’ he says in a voice like slithering
murder. Remember my name: Talanexor the Fireweaver.’
‘Remember my name,’ you call back as you lope off, ‘Lauria
the Housebreaker.’
Let the conniving vixen get into trouble. She nearly played
you for her patsy, after all. Turn to 10.

42 The War-Torn Kingdom
433
You rush in, taking the ruffians by surprise. A couple of good
buffets around the head, and they run off. The scholar lies
groaning on the ground.
Help him up
turn to 172
Rob him
turn to 379
434
You can leave possessions and money here to save having to
carry them around with you. You can also rest here safely, and
recover any Stamina points you have lost. Record in the box
anything you wish to leave. Each time you return, roll two dice:
Score 2-10 Your possessions are safe
Score 11
A thief. All the money you left here has
gone
Score 12
Earthquake! Lose all possessions you left here
and the town house (erase the tick at 100)
When you are ready, turn to 100.
Items in town house

yourself up. You are forced to abandon the attempt and climb
back down.
Turn to 244.
439
Your ship is sailing in the coastal waters beside Yellowport.
Sail into Yellowport Harbour
turn to 555
Sail north east towards Scorpion Bight
turn to 430
Sail south west along the coast
turn to 120
Sail south into the Violet Ocean
turn to 366
440
Becoming an initiate of Elnir gives you the benefit of paying less
for blessings and other services the Temple can offer. It costs 60
Shards to become and initiate. You cannot become an initiate of
Elnir if you are already an initiate of another temple.
If you choose to become an initiate, write Elnir in the God
box on your Adventure Sheet – and then cross 60 shards off
your Adventure Sheet.
Turn to 568.
441
You clamber up on to the battlements of the Temple of Tyrnai
with relative ease and manoeuvre yourself into a position
overlooking the golem guards at the gate. Now you have to
reach down without being noticed.
Make a THIEVERY roll at Difficulty 11.
Successful THIEVERY roll
turn to 22
turn to 168
Failed THIEVERY roll

435
Becoming an initiate of Tyrnai gives you the benefit of paying
less for blessings and other services the temple can offer. To
qualify as an initiate you must have a COMBAT score of at least
6. You cannot become an initiate of Tyrnai if you are already an
initiate of another temple.
If you choose to become an initiate (and meet the
qualification) write Tyrnai in the God box on your Adventure
Sheet.
Turn to 526.
436
You find yourself washed up on a rocky shore, battered and
cold, but lucky to be alive. You haul yourself up the beach on to
land. Fortunately to you, you are near the Trading Post on the
Isle of Druids. Turn to 195.
437
Becoming an initiate of Sig gives you the benefit of paying less
for blessings and other services. Also, you can add 1 to your
THIEVERY score, as Sig will watch over your pilfering activities
and keep you safe from the law. It costs 50 Shards to become an
initiate. You cannot become an initiate if you are already an
initiate of any other temple.
If you choose to become an initiate. Write Sig in the God
box on your Adventure Sheet – and cross off 50 Shards.
Turn to 235.
438
The climb is too arduous for you. The air becomes too thin to
breathe, and you cannot find the footholds you need to pull

442
You set out to explore the city of Yellowport at night,
unwholesome though it is with its reeking air and dusty ochre
streets.
Head for the rough part of the town
turn to 21
Go to the wealthy area
turn to 178
Explore the merchants’ storehouses
turn to 265
443
You are witness to a major sea battle, involving at least 40
warships, between the Sokaran navy, and a pirate fleet. Arrows
fill the air, and smoking fireballs are launched from catapults
mounted on some of the ships. The shrieks of the dying carry
across the waves. You decide it would be better not to get
involved in such a conflict. Turn to 420.
444
You try to make a run for it. Roll two dice and add your Rank.
Subtract 1 from the total if you have a poor crew. Add 1 if you
have a good crew or add 2 if you have an excellent crew.
Score 1-7
The galley overtakes you
turn to 51
Score 8+
You outrun them
turn to 402
445
You climb up, and squeeze through an open window into a
long hall. Thin wires are stretched across the room, but you are
an able enough rogue to crawl through without touching any of
them and setting off possible traps or alarms.
Inside the temple, it is cool and dark, filled with an unearthly
stillness. Suddenly, the temple doors are flung open, and two
figures lumber into the room. You realize with a thrill of horror

The War-Torn Kingdom 43
that the bull-headed iron statues outside the gates have come to
life. They are golems, set here to guard the temple.
Run for your life
turn to 349
Fight them
turn to 569
446
If there is a tick in this box, turn to 226 immediately. If not, put
a tick there now and read on.
You set out that night, on your quest. Make a MAGIC roll at
Difficulty 10.
Successful MAGIC roll
turn to 511
Failed MAGIC roll
turn to 328
447
You find yourself washed up on a rocky shore, beneath
towering cliffs. You are battered and cold, but lucky to be alive.
Eventually, you find a path up the cliff. You climb up, to find
yourself at the Shadar Tor. Turn to 35.
448
If you are an initiate it costs only 5 Shards to propitiate the twin
gods of the sea. A non-initiate must pay 20 Shards. Cross off the
money and mark Safety from Storms in the Blessings box on
your Adventure Sheet. The blessing works by allowing you to
ignore any one storm at sea. When you use the blessing, cross it
off your Adventure Sheet. You can have only one Safety from
Storms blessing at any one time. Once it is used up, you can
return to any branch of the temple of Alvir and Valmir to buy a
new one.
Turn to 220.
449
You creep past a scorpion man guard, which is dozing at the
entrance to one of the burrows. The stench inside the mound is
foul – a kind of acrid, rotting vegetable smell. You head for the
centre of the mound, past tunnels, rooms and egg chambers,
avoiding the inhabitants by skulking in the shadows.
Finally, you come to a room which is more like the
laboratory of a sorcerer than a scorpion den – jars, alembics and
scrolls lie all over the place. A scorpion man is at work at a desk.
Unlike others of his kind, he wears rudimentary clothing.
Suddenly, what you took for a stuffed animal’s head,
mounted on the wall, says, ‘There is an intruder, master.’
The scorpion man wheels around and charges straight at you!
Make a MAGIC roll at Difficulty 9.
Successful MAGIC roll
turn to 503
Failed MAGIC roll
turn to 105
450
A wooden stockade encloses the springs. At the gate, two
militiamen stand on guard, and a priest, dressed in blue robes,
sits behind a desk.
‘Thirty-five Shards to enjoy the divine spa,’ says the priest.
Pay 35 Shards and enter
turn to 378
Cannot or will not pay
turn to 510
451
You ask the innkeeper about Yanryt the Son. He looks at you
oddly, clearly unsettled by your question.

‘Some say he is the son of a mortal woman, and the god
Tyrnai. But he has not been here for some time…’ Suddenly he
stops, and stares in amazement at the corner of the tavern.
You turn to look, and there, hunched over a stoop of ale, is
Yanryt the Son. He greets you.
If you have a black dragon shield, turn to 575. If not, turn
to 329.
452
The Trading Post has a small market place in the village square,
where half a dozen stalls sell a few goods. Items with no
purchase price are not available locally.
Armour
Leather (Defence +1)
Ring mail (Defence +2)
Chain mail (Defence +3)

To buy
50 Shards
–
–

To sell
45 Shards
90 Shards
180 Shards

Weapons (sword, axe, etc)
No COMBAT bonus
COMBAT bonus +1

To buy
50 Shards
–

To sell
40 Shards
200 Shards

To buy
–

To sell
400 Shards

To buy
300 Shards
–
–
500 Shards
50 Shards
100 Shards
–
–
–
–
–

To sell
270 Shards
270 Shards
100 Shards
450 Shards
45 Shards
90 Shards
90 Shards
100 Shards
50 Shards
90 Shards
150 Shards

Magical Equipment
Amber wand (MAGIC +1)
Other items
Mandolin (CHARISMA +1)
Lockpicks (THIEVERY +1)
Holy symbol (SANCTITY +1)
Compass (SCOUTING +1)
Rope
Lantern
Climbing gear
Bag of pearls
Rat poison
Pickaxe
Silver nugget
When you are finished, turn to 195.

453
You find yourself washed up on a long, sandy beach, battered
and cold, but lucky to be alive. You head inland until you
realize you have arrived at the rivermouth delta of the River
Grimm. Turn to 579.
454
If there is a tick in the box, turn to 188. If not, put a tick there
now and read on.
You are thrown into a stinking prison cell. Your cell-mate, a
half-dead old man with long white hair tells you his tale: ‘The
lair of the gorlock! A hideous beast that has backward-pointing
feet – Krine and I, fleeing with our stolen treasure sought refuge
in the cave near Blessed Springs. The tracks led us to believe it
had just left its cave, but we didn’t know about its feet – in fact
it was at home. It took Krine but I managed to escape with my
life, only to be taken by the militia. I will never live to see the
treasure but you, forewarned, may defeat the gorlock and take
the riches it guards...’
Gain the codeword Apache.

44 The War-Torn Kingdom
A few days later, you learn your own fate. You are to be sold
into slavery, and taken to Caran Baru to work in the tin mines.
Turn to 118.

city – turn to 10. If you are a Mage you can use sorcery to
create light. If you have a light source, read on.
You follow a tunnel into the darkness. Turn to 164.

455
A merchant ship, sailing for Wishport, will take you for 15
Shards. You must have Cities of Gold and Glory before you can
travel to Wishport. If you do not want to make the trip, turn
back to 142. Otherwise, pay the 15 Shards and read on.
You have an uneventful journey and arrive in Wishport
safely. Turn to Cities of Gold and Glory 217.

461
You say the password ‘Rebirth’ to the door.
‘Sorry,’ says the Demon Door. ‘The password changes once
it has been used.’ says the door smugly. ‘I can’t open for you.’
You will just have to leave.
North to the Bronze Hills
turn to 110
West to the River Grimm
turn to 333
South to the country
turn to 560
East to the road
turn to 387

456
‘Ah, welcome, welcome,’ says Marloes Marlock.
If you have the codeword Ambuscade, turn to 375. If not, but
you have the codeword Ark and the royal ring, turn to 255.
Otherwise, you tell him you have not yet completed your
mission. You are thrown out immediately before you have time
to say more.
‘Come back when you have better news, you worthless
dog,’ screams the provost marshal.
Turn to 10 and chose again.
457
They are unimpressed with your musical ability. The king waves
his hand irritably. Suddenly, you wake up in your cabin, puzzled
by your peculiar dream. If you have a blessing of Safety from
Storms it is now gone – delete it from your blessings box. There
are no other effects.
Turn to 507.
458
The road between Caran Baru and Fort Mereth is another
military highway for transporting troops and supplies.
North into the country
turn to 60
South to the farmlands
turn to 548
South west to Caran Baru
turn to 400
North east to Fort Mereth
turn to 299
459
Cross off 50 Shards. The little Mannekyn creature is handed
over to you on a leash. Its wings have been tied together to stop
it flying away.
‘Who are you, then?’ it pipes in a squeaky voice.
Just then, a palanquin, carried by four bearers, arrives. A man
leans out and hails you, ‘You there! I’ve come to buy that flying
monkey but I see I am too late. Nevertheless, I will give you 75
Shards for it.’
‘Don’t sell me to that popinjay – free me instead,’ chitters
the Mannekyn.
Free it
turn to 659
Sell it
turn to 186
460
You climb down an old disused well in the poor quarter of
Yellowport.
If you have the codeword Acid or a copper amulet, turn to
327 immediately. If not, read on.
It is dank, dark and smelly down below. If you do not have a
light source, such as a lantern, you will have to return to the

462
What service do you seek at the temple of the Twin Gods of the
Sea?
Become an initiate
turn to 294
Renounce worship of Alvir and Valmir
turn to 624
Seek a blessing
turn to 448
Leave the temple
turn to 10
463
You remember the words of the old man you shared a prison
cell with. This must be the lair of the gorlock that is said to have
backward-pointing feet, so that the tracks it leaves will always
show the opposite direction of travel! You realize that this
means the gorlock is inside the cave.
Challenge the beast to combat
turn to 174
Wait for it to leave the cave and sneak in
turn to 287
464
The ship, already crippled by a storm, and with only half its
crew, is easy meat for your hardy men. The strangely dressed
foreigners surrender without much of a fight. You get 100
Shards as booty, and 1 Cargo Unit of spices, if you have the
room to take it. Now turn to 559.
465
Several hideous creatures, which resemble giant lobsters, surge
out of the water to attack you! You and your crew are taken by
surprise, and things look bleak – some of your men are quickly
killed, their bodies torn in two by powerful mandibles. The
others begin to panic.
Make a CHARISMA roll at Difficulty 10.
Successful CHARISMA roll
turn to 389
turn to 214
Failed CHARISMA roll
466
The road between Blessed Springs and Fort Brilon is patrolled
by troopers of the Sokaran army. The fort is well-supplied from
Blessed Springs, and traffic abounds.
Visit Fort Brilon
turn to 259
Head for Blessed Springs
turn to 510
Set off north into the farmlands
turn to 548
467
The heavy wooden gates of the temple of Tyrnai are guarded by
couple of veteran warriors – the old iron bullmen are gone.
Inside, the god is represented by a stone idol of a jaguar-headed
warrior. He appears to be naked.

The War-Torn Kingdom 45
Suddenly, a priest shouts, ‘It’s the thief! The blasphemous
devil has had the nerve to return here!’
A score of warrior priests of Tyrnai boil out of the back
rooms of the temple. You had better run for your life!
Roll a die. If the score is less than or equal to your Rank,
turn to 395. Otherwise, turn to 551.
468
You are walking down a side alley when a figure steps out of a
doorway to block your path – it is a man with a velvet eyepatch.
His one good eye glitters with evil humour from a face
ravaged with the scars of many a fight.
‘I hear you are looking for me,’ he says in a silky voice.
Make a THIEVERY roll at Difficulty 11.
Successful THIEVERY roll
turn to 393
Failed THIEVERY roll
turn to 14
469
He tells you of his life-long quest to find the ‘Greatest Story
Ever Told’. It is said that the god, Sig, in his aspect as the Divine
Bard, passed this knowledge to a mystic called Damor the
Hermit. He lives alone in a lost cave, awaiting the day when he
can pass on the story to the one who finds him.
‘I am too old now to pursue the quest – so I pass it on to
you. I believe he can be found in the foothills of the Spine of
Harkun, the mountains to the north. If you find Damor you
will become a great Troubadour!’
Acquire the codeword Anthem. Turn to 100.
470
You grab the woman’s wrist and give it a painful twist. You are
not being cruel for the sake of it – she was about to steal your
money!
‘Oh, let me go,’ she pleads, showing you the little infant son
she’s carrying in her other arm. ‘I need the money for my
starving children and my poor crippled husband.’
Yellowport is full of wretched like this. With a snarl, you
push her away, tossing a coin after her for good measure (cross 1
Shard off your Adventure Sheet).
Later, strolling down by the canal, you find a small bundle
lying on the slick cobblestones. It is a doll wrapped in swaddling
clothes to make it look like a baby. Turn to 10.
471
If you have the codeword Animal, turn to 369. If not, read on.
The priestess, dressed in silken robes, and wearing a wreath
of oak leaves, says, ‘I have need of an adventurer like yourself.
For arcane reasons involving the secret mysteries of Lacuna, I
need the tusk of a boar. A were-boar, in fact. I believe they can
be found in the Forest of the Forsaken, in northern Golnir.
Hunt down a were-boar, and bring me a boar’s tusk. In return
I will teach you how to be a better scout.’
If you accept the mission, acquire the codeword Animal.
Turn to 544.
472
If you have the codeword Dotage, turn to 667 immediately. If
not, read on.
Fort Estgard is one of three forts along the wall that runs
right along the border. Their purpose is to defend Sokara against
the ravening manbeasts of Nerech, which are constantly trying

to break through to raid the interior. The commander of the fort
desperately wants to see you.
‘My daughter, Alissia, has been kidnapped by the manbeasts!’
he says. ‘They are asking that I let one of their raiding parties
through, to attack the farmlands. I’m delaying my response as
long as possible, but if I don’t do something soon, they will kill
her! Please, I need a brave adventurer to rescue her!’
If you take up the quest, record the codeword Alissia.
Head east to Nerech
The Plains of Howling
Darkness 225
North west to Fort Mereth
turn to 299
South east to Fort Brilon
turn to 259
West into the farmlands
turn to 548
473
The slave market is a large, canvas-covered square. The poor
unfortunate slaves, people from all over Harkuna – from the
Feathered Lands, Golnir, criminals of Sokara, nomads from the
steppes, are paraded in chains on a dais. Merchants and nobles
bid for the slaves they want. If there is a tick in the above box,
turn to 610 immediately. If not, read on.
An unusual sale has come up – a little, furry, bat-winged
humanoid. It is one of the Mannekyn People from Sky
Mountain in the north and it is going for 50 Shards.
If you want to buy it, turn to 459. If not, you head back into
town. Turn to 400.
474
The Coldbleak Mountains look as inhospitable and forbidding as
their name implies, their frozen flanks climbing high into the icy
clouds.
Climb into the mountains
turn to 5
Enter Caran Baru
turn to 400
Go west to the road
turn to 347
Head into the farmlands
turn to 548
Go south to the Lake of the Sea Dragon
turn to 135
475
You slip on the rotting scraps of King Skabb’s last meal and fall
over with a crash. The ratmen turn to stare at you.
‘A human! Get him!’ screams Skabb.
The four ratmen charge toward you with a roar. Soon they
have been joined by others and you have little choice but to
turn and flee for your life! You race down the sewer tunnels,
with an army of ratmen in hot pursuit.
Lose them in the tunnels
turn to 79
Try some magic
turn to 296
Hide
turn to 127
476
‘Not bad,’ says the man with the eye patch. ‘But now I’ll finish
you!’ He draws his sword, and you must fight.
Man with eyepatch, COMBAT 4, Defence 6, Stamina 12
If you win, turn to 92. If you lose you are dead unless you have
a resurrection deal.
477
You cannot get away fast enough. With one gulp Vayss the Sea
Dragon gobbles you up. Your adventuring days are over, unless
you have a resurrection deal.

46 The War-Torn Kingdom
478
Resurrection costs 200 Shards if you are an initiate, 600 Shards if
not. It is the last word in insurance. Once you have arranged for
resurrection you need not fear death, as you will be magically
restored to life here at the temple.
To arrange resurrection, pay the fee and write ‘Temple of
Nagil (The War-Torn Kingdom 350)’ in the Resurrection box on
your Adventure Sheet. If you are later killed, turn to 350 in this
book. You can have only one resurrection arranged at any one
time. If you arrange resurrection later at a different temple, the
original one is cancelled – cross it off your Adventure Sheet.
You will not get a refund!
Turn to 71.
479
They seem quite alarmed to see you charge forward undaunted.
As your first blow lands solidly and you hear a satisfying grunt of
pain, you know for a fact that these are no ghosts that you are
facing, but people of flesh and blood. Fight them one at a time:
First Trickster, COMBAT 2, Defence 3, Stamina 3
Second Trickster, COMBAT 2, Defence 3, Stamina 2
Third Trickster, COMBAT 2, Defence 3, Stamina 2
If you win, turn to 171. If you lose, you are dead, unless you
have a resurrection deal.
480
‘Well, tell you what – I’ll teach you a few tricks, and then you
can go away. What do you say?’
You’ve got nothing to lose so you accept. Damor was once a
Troubadour, and he instructs you in its arts. Gain 1 CHARISMA
point permanently. Afterwards, for a few hours, he lifts the curse
that soured your water so you can make it down the mountain
path safely. Turn to 244.
481
If you are an initiate it costs only 10 Shards to purchase Maka’s
blessing. A non-initiate must pay 20 Shards. Cross off the money
and mark Immunity to Disease and Poison in the Blessings box
on your Adventure Sheet.
The blessing works by allowing you to ignore any one
occasion when you would normally suffer from disease or poison
– for instance, the venomous bite of a snake. When you use the
blessing, cross it off your Adventure Sheet. You can have only
one Immunity to Disease and Poison blessing at any one time.
Once it is used up, you can return to any branch of the temple
of Maka to buy a new one.
Turn to 141.
482
If you are an initiate it costs only 10 Shards to purchase Lacuna’s
blessing. A non-initiate must pay 25 Shards. Cross off the money
and mark SCOUTING in the Blessings box on your Adventure
Sheet.
The blessing works by allowing you to try again when you
make a failed SCOUTING roll. It is only good for one reroll.
When you use the blessing, cross it off your Adventure Sheet.
You can have only one SCOUTING blessing at any one time.
Once it is used up, you can return to any branch of the temple
of Lacuna to buy a new one.
When you are finished here, turn to 615.

483
The tavern costs you 1 Shard a day. Each day you spend here,
you can recover 1 Stamina point if injured, up to the limit of
your normal unwounded Stamina score.
If you want to spend 3 Shards buying drinks all round at the
bar, and listen for rumours, turn to 323. Otherwise, turn to 510.
484
You sail for days without sight of land. Soon you have run out
of water, and the crew start dying of thirst. You lose 1-6
Stamina (the roll of one die) and several of your men. Reduce
your crew to poor quality (unless it is already poor, in which
case nothing happens).
Eventually, you find a familiar stretch of coast. Roll one die.
Score 1 or 2
turn to 120
Score 3 or 4
turn to 430
Score 5 or 6
turn to 136
485
Your ship, crew and cargo are lost to the deep, dark sea. Your
only thought now is to save yourself. Roll two dice. If the score
is greater than your Rank, you are drowned – turn to 680. If the
score is less than or equal to your Rank, you manage to find
some driftwood, and make it back to shore. Lose Stamina points
equal to the score of one die roll and, if you can survive that,
turn to 193.
486
Everything indicated the cave is empty so you approach
carefully, on the look out for attack from behind. Suddenly,
something rushes out of the cave, taking you by surprise! It is a
gorlock, a beast with legs like a bird, a body like a reptile, with
two short forelimbs and a beaked, lizard-like head. You see that
its two legs end in backward-pointing feet – the tracks it leaves
will always show the wrong direction of travel!
It bites at you savagely, and you lose 4 Stamina points. If you
still live, you will have to fight.
Gorlock, COMBAT 4, Defence 6, Stamina 7
If you win, turn to 315. If you lose, your bones will join the
others at the entrance of the cave – turn to 680.
487
Make a SCOUTING roll at Difficulty 11.
Successful SCOUTING roll
Failed SCOUTING roll

turn to 348
turn to 189

488
You collapse, dying. A priest of Tyrnai, however, heals you so
that you come round with 1 Stamina point left. It is not out of
kindness that he has done this. The priests take all your money
and possessions (cross them off your Adventure Sheet) and sell
you into slavery. You are set to work in the tin mines outside
the city. Turn to 118.
489
Later, in your cabin, you examine the pearls more closely. To
your horror, they lose their pearly sheen and return to their
natural state – tiny pebbles. Some enchantment had been laid
upon them to make them look like pearls. Cursing the young
Sea Gypsy, you vow to be more careful next time. Turn to 85.

The War-Torn Kingdom 47
490
When you hit the guardian, you tear away great wispy chunks of
its smoky essence. Eventually, it dissolves into nothingness.
Inside the sarcophagus you find the mouldering bones of a
long-dead wizard. In his skeletal hands you find the Book of
Excellence. As you scan the pages, you learn all sorts of new tricks
– add one to the ability of your choice (such as SCOUTING or
COMBAT) permanently. Once you have read it, the book
disappears with a flash.
You thread your way out of the Tomb of the Wizard King,
back into the Forest of Larun. Turn to 47.
491
You succumb to the insidious breath of the beast. Death has
claimed you. Your adventuring days are over, unless you have a
resurrection deal.
492
You are on a rough track that runs between Venefax and the
territories of the scorpion men, slogging your way through hot,
dry scrubland. A hawk circles overhead, cawing harshly.
Go north to Venefax
turn to 427
Go south into Scorpion Bight
turn to 318
493
Gills grow out of your neck as soon as you have read the runes
aloud! You make your way down a track to the beach, and
swim out to sea. The gills work perfectly, and you find yourself
swimming in the eerie silence of a submarine world.
Suddenly, a hideous form looms out of the murk. It is rather
like a giant squid, but it carries a spear in one of its many
tentacles and wears rudimentary armour. Great black eyes shine
with an implacable alien intelligence.
If you have the codeword Anchor, turn to 116. Otherwise,
turn to 238.
494
You dodge down a side tunnel, and mutter an enchantment
intended to give you the appearance of a ratman. Your pursuers
come bundling around a corner – one of them stops to shout at
you, ‘Where’d the human go?’
Nonchalantly, you point down the tunnel, and the ratmen
go haring off down it, whooping and yelling. You turn and walk
the other way, a smile on your face. Turn to 580.
495
You arrive at Disaster Bay, where you find a community of
fishermen. Judging by their wealth, they also make a living by
other means – you suspect by looting the ships that get wrecked
in the stormy waters of the bay.
A man offers to take you by boat, safely through the bay, and
north to the port of Yarimura, on the Great Steppes. It will cost
you 50 Shards.
Pay 50 Shards to go to Yarimura
The Plains of Howling
Darkness 25
Head north to the mountains
turn to 244
Head for the road
turn to 518
Head for Fort Mereth
turn to 299

496
If there is a tick in the box, turn to 317 immediately. If not, put
a tick there now, and read on.
You manoeuvre your ship as close as possible, and then take
a rowboat over to the craft. Climbing inside, you find yourself
in a small cabin which is lit by wining red and green lights set
into the walls. A figure lies sprawled beside an ornate couch.
The figure, although manlike, appears to have silver skin, and a
great big round head, with one black, glittering eye that seems
to fill its whole face. Whatever it is appears to be dead.
Quickly you search the craft, and find a kind of spear that
fires steel balls from one end. It counts as a magic spear
(COMBAT +2).
Worried that you may be meddling with a ship of demons,
you head back quickly, and sail on. Turn to 85.
497
The tavern costs you 1 Shard a day. Each day you spend here,
you can recover 1 Stamina point if injured, up to the limit of
your normal unwounded Stamina score.
If you want to spend 3 Shards buying drinks for the locals,
and ask them about the scorpion men, turn to 525. Otherwise,
turn to 427.
498
There are too many of them, and they give you a good hiding.
‘Maybe that’ll teach you some respect,’ one of them says, as they
swagger off, leaving you groaning in the gutter. You are reduced
to only 1 Stamina point. You decide to call it a night. Turn to
100.
499
You board your ship, which is docked in the harbour. The crew
give a drunken cheer as you come on board.
‘Where are we bound, Cap’n?’ asks the first mate.
Return to shore
turn to 555
Set sail
turn to 29
500
You are restored to life at the war-god’s temple in Yellowport.
Your Stamina is back to its normal score. The possessions and
cash you were carrying at the time of your death are lost – cross
them off your Adventure Sheet. Also remember to delete the
entry in the Resurrection box now it has been used.
The high priest, pale and wan after the effort of interceding
with the god to bring you back to life says, ‘You have returned
from beyond the dark mirror of death. Tyrnai has granted you
another chance – strive to seek battle in his name!’
Turn to 526.
501
If you didn’t have enough money in the bank to cover the
ransom demand, turn to 288. Otherwise, your captors take the
money and run. You are released into Yellowport, turn to 10.
502
‘The Violet Ocean’s a dangerous place, Cap’n’, says the first
mate. ‘The crew probably won’t follow you there if they don’t
think you’re good enough!’
If your Rank is 4 or more, turn to paragraph 77 in Over the
Blood-Dark Sea.

48 The War-Torn Kingdom
If your Rank is less than 4, the first mate advises you against
the ocean journey. If you take his advice, turn back to 420.
If you insist on making the trip, you need to make a
CHARISMA roll at Difficulty 12 to convince the crew to follow
you.
Successful CHARISMA roll
Over the Blood-Dark Sea 77
turn to 420
Failed CHARISMA roll
503
Your magical awareness tells you that something is wrong. You
realize that the scorpion man is an illusion – a magically created
disguise! The illusion falls away under your keen magical sight,
and a rather fat little fellow is standing before you, dressed in a
dirty, food-stained tunic.
‘Ah…’ he says, realizing his subterfuge has been uncovered.
He drops to his knees, pleading, ‘Please don’t kill me! Please
don’t kill me!’
You manage to calm him down enough to find out his story.
His name is Kaimren the Portly, a minor sorcerer. He came here
in the guise of a scorpion man, and swiftly rose to power using
his magical skills. He had planned to use the scorpion men as an
army.
Fearfully, he hands you the Book of the Seven Sages,
which he stole to further his campaign of conquest. Note it on
your Adventure Sheet.
Then Kaimren leads you through a secret tunnel, out of the
mound, and back to the village of Venefax, where you hand him
over to the Venefax authorities for trial.
Record the codeword Afraid and turn to 427.
504
If there is a tick in the box, turn to 345 immediately. If not, put
a tick there now, and read on.
The lookout spots a ship, its back broken on some rocks near
the shore. The vessel will not last long before it is washed away.
Ignore it
turn to 209
Explore the wreck
turn to 39
505
Cross the silver nugget off your Adventure Sheet.
‘Excellent,’ says the dragon, catching the nugget in one of its
clawed forelimbs.
With that, it rolls over, and dives down into the lake. At the
last second, its tail whips up out of the water, inches from your
face.
You could reach out and grab it, if you wanted to.
Catch the tail
turn to 362
Leave it well alone
turn to 561
506
The Gold Dust Tavern is a plush inn besides the city gates. The
tavern costs you 1 Shard a day. Each day you spend here, you
can recover 1 Stamina point if injured, up to the limit of your
normal unwounded Stamina score.
If you want to spend a further 3 Shards buying drinks all
round at the bar, and listen for rumours, turn to 331. Otherwise,
turn to 10.
507
You are sailing across the Sea of Whispers with a clear, blue sky
and a salty wind to help you on your way.

Dock at the Isle of Druids
Sail west towards Scorpion Bight
Sail north west into coastal waters
Sail north into coastal waters
Sail south into the Violet Ocean
Sail east into the Unbounded Ocean

turn to 195
turn to 430
turn to 190
turn to 312
turn to 13
turn to 206

508
You come round inside a disused warehouse, enmeshed in the
net. You have been stripped of all your possessions – they are in
a tidy pile nearby. Several men surround you. They are dressed
in furs and robes that are adorned with hundreds of multicoloured feathers. Each man wears a necklace of animal skulls
and has his teeth sharpened to needle-like points.
‘Hallo,’ the leader says reasonably. ‘We are the Unspeakable
Ones – it is our way to eat people in sacrifice of our god.’
He points to a squat wooden idol of a grossly fat half-man,
half ape with ivory needles for teeth. You notice the name
‘Badogor the Unspoken’ inscribed on a plaque at the base of the
idol.
‘Badogor the Unspoken - who’s he?’ you ask.
‘Do not speak his name!’ shouts the cannibal, ‘Or you will
be forever cursed!’
You notice a large cauldron of boiling water into which
another cultist is tossing herbs and garlic. He stares at you and
licks his lips.
Turn to 320.
509
You spot a pressure pad at the base of the idol just in time –
who knows what unpleasant trap that would have set off!
Quickly, you remove the chain mail and sling it over your
shoulder. Note the gold chain mail of Tyrnai on your
Adventure Sheet – as it is gold, it is useless as actual armour.
The eyes of the jaguar headed idol seem to turn to look at
you. Make a SANCTITY roll at Difficulty 10.
turn to 625
Successful SANCTITY roll
Failed SANCTITY roll
turn to 279
510
The village of Blessed Springs, nestling at the foot of a tall hill,
has grown up around the holy waters, a special spring said to
have healing powers. It has been fenced off by the villagers, and
a priesthood appointed to supervise the supplicants who come to
bathe, or drink of the spring’s waters. There is no market, but an
alchemist has set up shop here.
Visit the Holy Waters
turn to 450
Visit the alchemist’s shop
turn to 342
Visit the Blessed Ale Tavern
turn to 483
Explore the hill
turn to 398
Head north towards Fort Brilon
turn to 466
South towards to Venefax
turn to 87
West into the countryside
turn to 278
North west into farmlands
turn to 548
511
Your arcane knowledge tells you much about the undead.
Ghouls are known to eat the flesh of the dead as well as the
living. They like to make their homes in crypts and graveyards
and they never venture out during the day, as sunlight burns

The War-Torn Kingdom 49
their pallid undead flesh. Also, they cannot abide a powder of
salt and iron filings mixed together.
You can purchase these ingredients for 15 Shards at many a
market stall. If you make the purchase, note you have salt and
iron filings on your Adventure Sheet.
When you are ready, you set off to search the cemeteries of
Marlock City. Make a SCOUTING roll at Difficulty 9.
Successful SCOUTING roll
turn to 419
turn to 360
Failed SCOUTING roll
512
If you have a pirate captain’s head and want to give it to the
guildmaster, turn to 163. If not, read on.
‘Do you have the head of Amcha the Pirate?’ asks the
guildmaster. ‘No! The what are you doing here? He is plying his
evil trade in the seas to the south, and his base lies to the east of
the Sorcerers’ Isle. Now go!’
Turn to 100.
513
One of them gives you a conch shell full of a greenish liquid.
You drink it, and dive into the sea. Miraculously, you can
breathe underwater! You follow the sea centaurs down into the
depths until you arrive at a sunken ship, which is encrusted in
barnacles and seaweed.
Suddenly, the sea centaurs swim away, leaving you alone.
You notice that you are giving off a glow like the sea centaurs.
Looking down, you see that the lower half of your body has
turned into that of a sea centaur! You have been taken and
transformed to replace their lost companion.
Explore the sunken wreck
turn to 429
Swim back up to your ship
turn to 616
514
To renounce the worship of Tyrnai, you must pay 50 Shards to
the warrior priests, and suffer the ‘Wrathful Blow’. A priest will
strike you once – it is better to be struck by a priest than by
Tyrnai himself!
If you are determined to renounce your initiate status, pay
the 50 Shards and delete Tyrnai from the God box on your
Adventure Sheet. The high priest smashes you across the jaw,
saying ‘I’m doing you a favour – believe me!’ Lose 1 Stamina
point. If you earlier arranged a resurrection here, it is cancelled
with no refund.
When you have finished, Turn to 282.
515
Make a MAGIC roll at Difficulty 11.
Successful MAGIC roll
Failed MAGIC roll

turn to 205
turn to 314

516
You pull the wolf pelt over you, and drop to all fours.
Gingerly, you crawl in. In the dark, you now look and smell like
a wolf. At the back of the cave, you find a hole in the roof and
an iron ladder leading up to it.
Climb the ladder
The Plains of Howling Darkness 350
Leave the cave
turn to 3

517
If you have a ghoul’s head, turn to 597. If not, a priest asks
which service you require.
Become an initiate
turn to 409
Renounce worship
turn to 187
Make resurrection arrangements
turn to 478
Leave the temple
turn to 100
518
You are on the road between the Citadel of Velis Corin and
Fort Mereth. This is quite rarely travelled – the military
guardposts are few and far between. Roll one die
Score 1 or 2 Lose 10 Shards gambling (if you have it)
Score 3 or 4 Nothing happens
Score 5 or 6 A sweet spring heals you of up to 3
Stamina points
When you are ready, you can:
Go to Disaster Bay
turn to 495
Head for the Citadel of Velis Corin
turn to 271
Travel to Fort Mereth
turn to 299
Go south west into wild country
turn to 60
519
You crew have driven off the other ker’ilk, which dive into the
sea. The ship was carrying 1 Cargo Unit of furs, which you can
take if your ship has room. You clean up the dead sailors, and
give them a proper burial at sea. There is nothing else of interest,
so you sail on. Turn to 209.
520
You hold up your arms and utter the mightiest prayer that you
know. It has no effect.
The three white figures pelt you with a barrage of plates and
knives. Something heavy hits you on the side of the head and
you fall with a groan. The ghosts take advantage of this to snatch
up the casket of silver and run off. Lose 2 Stamina points.
If you still live, you recover your wits to find that the three
figures have vanished. But you are sure now that they were not
ghosts.
Try to track them down
turn to 541
Follow the river north
turn to 576
Follow the river south
turn to 82
Head east into the countryside
turn to 278
West to the main road
turn to 558
521
You are looking for the Black Dragon Knight on a quest that
was set for you by Yanryt the Son. You ask the knights if he is
here.
‘The Black Dragon Knight? Yes, he is,’ replies one of them.
‘But he fights only to the death – there is no wager save the
greatest of all for him, that is to say, life itself.’
Fight the Black Dragon Knight
turn to 321
Don’t fight and leave instead
turn to 276
522
That night several sea centaurs emerge from the waters, their
spiny skins glittering with phosphorescent flashes of light.
One of them speaks in a burbling voice. ‘Where is our
brother, whom you caught in your cruel nets, this day?’

50 The War-Torn Kingdom
‘He is dead, I’m afraid’, you reply, readying yourself for a
fight.
The sea centaurs remain silent for a few moments, then the
leader says, ‘His destiny was always bleak. We would be grateful
if you were to return his body to us.’
You cannot think of a reason not to, so you pass the body
down to them.
‘We thank you,’ burbles the sea centaur. ‘If you wish, we
will give you the power to breathe the waters, so that you may
swim down to the wreck that lies below, and take its treasures,
those things that the surface-dwellers hold dear.’
Accept the offer
turn to 513
Refuse the offer
turn to 408

Seek a blessing
Make resurrection arrangements
Leave the temple

turn to 373
turn to 599
turn to 10

527
You run off, leaving the terrible Gob-gobbler behind. The
villagers of Venefax greet you with snorts of derision and
contempt, and the young boy, Mikail, looks away, disappointed.
It would be prudent to leave Venefax for a while.
South into Scorpion Bight
turn to 492
North east towards Blessed Springs
turn to 87
South west on the road to Yellowport
turn to 621
North into open countryside
turn to 278

523
If you have the codeword Assassin, turn to 27 immediately. If
not, if you have the title Protector of Sokara, you are sent in to
see the provost marshal immediately – turn to 95.
Otherwise, you have to wait several hours to be seen by one
of the provost marshal’s aides, a certain Captain Royzer.
If you have the codeword Artery, Royzer sends you in to see
Marloes Marlock immediately – turn to 456.
Otherwise, you will have to convince the captain it is worth
his while to let you see the provost marshal. If you are a
Warrior, Rogue or Troubadour, Royzer will let you in for the
modest bribe of 5 Shards – turn to 191.
If you are a Wayfarer, Priest or Mage, you will have to
convince the captain of your loyalty to Sokara first. Make a
CHARISMA roll at Difficulty 9. If you are successful, you can
then bribe him – pay 5 Shards and turn to 191.
If you fail your CHARISMA roll or do not wish to pay the
bribe, Captain Royzer dismisses you rudely. Turn to 10.

528
You attempt to sneak in through the back of the temple that
night. Make a THIEVERY roll at Difficulty 11.
Successful THIEVERY roll
turn to 445
turn to 284
Failed THIEVERY roll

524
You struggle on. Only your iron will and hardiness keep you
alive. Eventually, the path leads to a bubbling well of springwater in the rocks, just at the opening of a cave. You drink your
fill, and soon you feel much better. Turn to 232.

531
If you have a golden net, turn to 4. If you do not have one,
turn to 462.

525
‘They’re vicious, evil devils,’ says an old peasant. ‘Like huge
scorpions they are, save they have the head and shoulders of a
man – intelligent too, forever seeking to pillage our town, but
they can’t climb up the ladders!”
A soldier in the local militia speaks up, ‘They hate fire, too.
All we have to do is sit atop the town, and pepper them with
flaming arrows. They can’t stand that for long. Mind you, things
are getting bad – they’ve got a sorcerer now!’
A young man, blind in one eye and paralysed down one side,
says, ‘They got a terrible sting as well – their venom did this to
me,’ pointing at his eye and side.
There’s not much else to hear, so you leave. Turn to 427.
526
The temple of Tyrnai, the God of War, is built in the shape of a
spear with a long, pillared nave, and an altar at the far end. Two
massive stone warriors guard its gates.
Tyrnai is depicted here as the insensate spirit of war – a
blood-drenched warrior with the head of a maddened jaguar.
Become an initiate
turn to 435
Renounce his worship
turn to 69

529
You loose your footing, and fall. Fortunately, some bushes break
your fall, and you lose only 4 Stamina points. If you still live,
turn back to 474.
530
Your ship is thrown about like flotsam and jetsam. When the
storm subsides, you take stock. Much has been swept overboard
– you lose 1 Cargo Unit, if you had any, of your choice. Also,
the ship has been swept way off course and the mate has no idea
where you are. ‘We’re lost at sea, Cap’n!’ he moans.
Turn to 90.

532
The scorpion men’s shaman falls dead with an uncannily human
cry. If you were wounded in that fight, you have been poisoned
by the scorpion man’s venom. Subtract 1 from your COMBAT,
THIEVERY and SCOUTING abilities, as you are severely
weakened (though no ability can drop to zero). Note that you
are poisoned – you can restore your ratings to normal if you get
cured. If you have some scorpion antidote, it will cure the
poison immediately (cross off the antidote).
A quick search reveals what you were looking for – the
Book of the Seven Sages. Note it on your Adventure Sheet.
You steal out of the mound unnoticed and make it safely
back to the village of Venefax, to the north. Turn to 427.
533
The man takes the money, bites a coin and spits. Satisfied he
says, ‘The Witches’ Cauldron – that’s where you’ll find him.’
Later, you find the Witches’ Cauldron Tavern in a maze of
backstreets. Looking through a window, you spot a man with a
velvet eyepatch sitting at a table, eating a meal.
Walk in and challenge him
turn to 589
Ambush him when he leaves
turn to 211

The War-Torn Kingdom 51
534
A long time passes. After a while, you risk calling up to Lauria in
a whisper. Your voice sounds thick, rasping – choked with
growing fear. Lauria does not reply.
Each second you remain in the house increases the risk of
discovery.
Wait a little longer
turn to 119
Go upstairs to find Lauria
turn to 386
Leave at once
turn to 10
535
The House of Priests is an impressive building, a roundhouse of
multi-coloured bricks. The myriad colours give it a bizarre and
garish look, calculated to unsettle the visitor. Inside, a hundred
offices team with the administration of the polytheistic religion
of Sokara and Golnir.
If you are a Priest, turn to 9. If not, there is little for you
here, turn back to 100.
536
If you have some climbing gear, turn to 628. If not, make a
SCOUTING roll at Difficulty 12.
Successful SCOUTING roll
turn to 562
turn to 438
Failed SCOUTING roll
537
You find out that they call themselves the Gypsies of the Sea,
wandering nomads of the waves, who find their islands naturally
occurring in the Sea of Weeds. They make their homes upon
them, and live a life of aimless drifting.
A tanned young man, full of wit and charm, explains that he
makes his living from pearl diving, and selling what he finds to
people like yourself. He offers you a bag of pearls for 25
Shards.
Buy the pearls
turn to 106
Leave and resume your journey
turn to 85
538
‘Refusing to pay your taxes, eh!’ says their leader. That’s a crime
for sure!’
They close in around you. You’ll have to think fast. Make a
CHARISMA roll at Difficulty 11.
Successful CHARISMA roll
turn to 18
turn to 157
Failed CHARISMA roll
539
You roll across the eaves of the gate and reach down to pull the
plug on the other golem in one deft movement. It ceases to
function before it can give the alarm. It is an easy matter to get
into the temple from the roof.
Inside, it is cool and dark, filled with an unearthly stillness.
You reach forward to strip the armour off the idol of Tyrnai.
Make a THIEVERY roll at Difficulty 12.
turn to 509
Successful THIEVERY roll
Failed THIEVERY roll
turn to 228
540
Sure enough, when the scholar leaves, purse bulging with
Shards, the two ruffians also leave. You follow at a slight
distance. As you suspected, the ruffians wait for a suitable
moment and then set about the scholar.

‘Help, help! Thieves!’ cries the scholar in a thin, reedy voice.
Return to the city centre
turn to 100
Chase the muggers off
turn to 433
541
Burdened by the heavy chest full of coins, the three figures have
left deep footprints in the grass.
Make a SCOUTING roll at a Difficulty of 10.
turn to 326
Successful SCOUTING roll
Failed SCOUTING roll
turn to 245
542
If there is a tick in the box, turn to 620 immediately. If not, put
a tick there now, and read on.
‘By Tyrnai! It’s the one who killed that pretender to the
throne, Nergan Corin!’ says one of them. They line up and give
you a drunken salute, and then fall to slapping you on the back,
and offering to buy you beers all night.
They also give you a present – a potion of strength
(COMBAT +1). Note it on your Adventure Sheet. When used it
will add 1 to your COMBAT rating, for one COMBAT roll, or
one fight only, after which it will wear off.
Turn to 100.
543
Guildmaster Vernon is too busy to see you. It seems he doesn’t
want to know you, now that he doesn’t need you anymore.
Such is life. Turn to 405 and choose again.
544
The shrine is set in a wooded grove. Birds twitter in the trees,
and a deer darts away into the forest at you approach. A priestess
is tending a low altar, where food and drink has been laid out in
honour of Lacuna, the Goddess of the Wilderness. She is the
patron of hunters, trappers, woodsmen, and all those who seek
oneness with nature.
Become an initiate of Lacuna
turn to 618
Renounce the worship of Lacuna
turn to 334
Seek a blessing
turn to 52
Talk to the priestess
turn to 471
Leave the temple
turn to 195
545
You are given the cage. The trau speaks to you so quickly that
you can barely distinguish the syllables.
‘Let me out of here, and I’ll reward you!’ it says.
Free it
turn to 642
Sell it to the mines in the Bronze Hills
turn to 651
546
With a heroic effort, you manage to get to the woman.
Gathering her up, you run for the door, and stagger out into the
cool night air, smoke and flame licking at your heels. The
townsfolk give you a rousing cheer and the girl thanks you
effusively for saving her mother.
Later, it transpires that the woman is actually a powerful
sorceress whose experiments in fire magic went slightly wrong.
Her name is Elissia the Traveller and she gives you a gift – a pale
moonstone. Note moonstone of teleportation – The WarTorn Kingdom, 650 on your Adventure Sheet.

52 The War-Torn Kingdom
Elissia tells that you can use the moonstone by rubbing it,
and you will be instantly teleported to the vicinity of the
sunstone – which she carries on a necklace.
‘I will be here in Marlock City. Whenever you are
desperate, at the end of your tether, or just want to get here fast,
use the moonstone and you will appear beside me. I will do
everything in my power to aid you, and then my debt to you
will be repaid.’
Whenever you want to use the moonstone, turn to 650 in
this book. Now turn to 100.
547
You instinct was correct. The sea bed suddenly drops away, to
reveal the ruins of the Sunken City of Ziusudra. Crumbling
towers climb out of the hazy green depths, and shoals of flashing
silverfish dart through the abandoned windows and doors of
coral-encrusted buildings.
The creature you are following arrows down towards a large
dome-like structure covered in waving tendrils of seaweed. It
disappears through a hole in the roof of the dome.
Carefully, you swim down to the hole and look through,
into the palace of the repulsive ones.
Turn to 41.
548
You are crossing an area of fertile farmland, where much of the
food is grown to feed the army. Little farmsteads dot the
landscape, and the ploughed fields have the appearance of a
patchwork quilt. Roll one die.
Score 1 or 2 Mistaken for a murderer! Forced to flee
into the mountains – turn to 474
Score 3 or 4 Nothing happens
Score 5 or 6 Find some leather armour (Defence +1)
When you are ready, you can go:
East to Fort Estgard
turn to 472
North to the road
turn to 458
South to Blessed Springs
turn to 510
To the Coldbleak Mountains
turn to 474
To the Lake of the Sea Dragon
turn to 135
549
The priestess, dressed in a cloak made entirely of the leaves of
trees, with her face smeared with moss, greets you. ‘A tusk!’ she
exclaims. ‘But I have no need of another.’
You ask if she might need it for the next time. ‘Next time?
Mmm, maybe you have a point.’
She offers you 15 Shards. If you accept, cross off the boar’s
tusk. Either way, when you leave, turn to 195.
550
If you have the gold chain mail of Tyrnai, turn to 380. If
not, turn to 134.
551
You cannot escape – there are too many of them and all of them
are seasoned warriors of Tyrnai. You are overpowered and given
a savage beating – you are reduced to only 1 Stamina point.
They take all your money and possessions. Cross them off your
Adventure Sheet. The priests do not have you sacrificed to
Tyrnai – instead you are sold into slavery and set to work in the
tin mines outside the city. Turn to 118.

552
A swaggering Sokaran captain marches on board with a
complement of marines.
‘I don’t think you’ve paid your harbour duties,’ he says.
‘Harbour duties! We’re in the middle of the sea!’ you
exclaim angrily.
The captain smiles smugly at you. ‘You’d better cough up 50
Shards, or I’ll impound your ship and its cargo.’
‘But that’s no better than common piracy!’ says your first
mate, outraged.
‘The duty will be 60 Shards now, for calling a captain in the
Sokaran Imperial Navy a pirate!’ he sneers.
Several of his men burst into laughter.
If you have the title Protector of Sokara, turn to 185.
Otherwise, you can:
Hand over the money (if you have it!)
turn to 401
Refuse outright
turn to 311
553
You convince her that you mean no harm. The little girl tells
you that she was placing flowers at the grave of her father, when
a horrible monster came for her. Fortunately, she was able to run
away. She points to a large tomb behind which the thing was
hiding.
You tell the girl to go home and then you set out warily for
the tomb. Suddenly, a foul stench fills your nostrils, and a figure
rises up out of the shadows! Yellow eyes glow with feral bloodlust, and the creature’s talons, encrusted with dried blood, reach
for you hungrily. You’ve found the ghoul!
Fight it
turn to 617
Invoke the power of the gods
turn to 144
Use some salt and iron filings
turn to 303
554
King Skabb’s rusty iron crown shattered when he fell, so you
take the copper amulet from around his neck. Note it on your
Adventure Sheet. You also find a chest in the corner of the
room but it is clearly booby-trapped. You can open it using
magic, or your skills as a thief. To pick the lock, make a
THIEVERY roll at Difficulty 9. To use sorcery, make a MAGIC
roll at Difficulty 9.
Successful roll
turn to 6
Failed roll
turn to 64
Leave the chest and return to the surface
turn to 10
555
All shipping in and out of Yellowport must come through the
offices of the harbourmaster. Here you can buy passage to far
lands, or even a ship of your own, to fill with cargo and crew.
You can buy one-way passage on a ship to the following
destinations:
Marlock City, cost 10 Shards
turn to 150
Isle of the Druids, cost 15 Shards
turn to 301
Sorcerer’s Isle, cost 30 Shards
turn to 234
Copper Island, cost 30 Shards
turn to 424
If you buy a ship, you are the captain and can take it where you
wish, exploring or trading. Three types of ship are available.
Ship Type

Cost

Capacity

The War-Torn Kingdom 53
Barque
Brigantine
Galleon

250 Shards
450 Shards
900 Shards

1 Cargo Unit
2 Cargo Units
3 Cargo Units

If you buy a ship, add it to the Ship’s Manifest, and name it as
you wish. The quality of the ship’s crew is poor, unless you
upgrade it. If you already own a ship you can sell it back to the
harbourmaster at half the above prices.
It costs 50 Shards to upgrade a poor crew to average, and
100 Shards to upgrade an average crew to good. Excellent
quality is not available in Yellowport.
If you own a ship, you can buy as many Cargo Units as it has
room for. You may also sell cargo, if you have any. Prices are for
single Cargo Units.
Cargo
Furs
Grain
Metals
Minerals
Spices
Textiles
Timber

To buy
190 Shards
200 Shards
600 Shards
350 Shards
900 Shards
350 Shards
180 Shards

To sell
170 Shards
180 Shards
500 Shards
250 Shards
810 Shards
300 Shards
160 Shards

Fill in your current cargo on the Ship’s Manifest.
If you own a ship and wish to set sail, turn to 499. If not you
can go to the city centre. Turn to 10.
556
Gain the codeword Amends.
You scatter the powder on the surface of the waters. Cross
the vial of yellow dust off your Adventure Sheet.
There is a flash, and a cloud of yellow smoke billows up out
of the pond. When it clears, you find yourself face to face with a
white-bearded bespectacled old man, floating a few feet off the
water! He is dressed in long, flowing ornate robes.
He blinks at you for a moment before saying, ‘Thank you,
thank you. That worthless apprentice of mine! Can you imagine
– I told him to throw the dust into the holy waters but the idiot
couldn’t even be trusted to do that!’
The old man’s name is Oliphard the Wizardly. As a reward,
he casts a spell that enhances your skill – add one to the ability of
your choice, permanently.
If you are a Mage, turn to 426. If not, he thanks you and
says, ‘If you ever need some help, look for me in Trefoille.’
Then he leaves – turn to 378.
557
‘Who is the rightful ruler of Sokara – General Grieve Marlock,
or the son of the old king, Nergan Corin?’ asks the soldier.
Grieve Marlock
turn to 631
Nergan Corin
turn to 664
558
You join the much-travelled road that connects Trefoille and
Caran Baru. The traffic mostly consists of convoys of troops and
supplies.
Go to Trefoille
turn to 250
Follow the road north
turn to 387
Go north into the Curstmoor
turn to 175
Go east to the river
turn to 310

559
You ship is sailing in the coastal waters off Shadar Tor.
Sail north west towards Marlock City
turn to 222
Sail north east towards Yellowport
turn to 29
Sail south into the Violet Ocean
turn to 416
560
You are crossing the western wilderness, an expanse of wild,
sparsely-populated countryside. A few trappers and woodsmen
make a living from the natural resources of the area.
A tall spire of rock, a towering anomaly of geology, rises up
into the clouds, dominating the horizon. A local hunter tells you
it is known as Devil’s Peak and that the summit is infested with
demons.
Climb the peak
turn to 658
Head west to the river
turn to 99
Head north into the Forest of Larun
turn to 47
Go south to the Curstmoor
turn to 175
Travel east to the road
turn to 558
561
You are left alone, free to trawl for smoulder fish. Roll one die
– the result is the number of smoulder fish you catch. When
you are ready, you return to shore and give the boat back. Turn
to 135.
562
After a gruelling climb of some hours, you are halfway up the
side of a mountain, when you discover a thin, precarious path,
leading up. You take a swig of water from your canteen and
proceed up the path.
After a while you have to stop to take more water. To your
horror, your water supply has turned sour and undrinkable!
Make a MAGIC roll at Difficulty 10.
Successful MAGIC roll
turn to 374
turn to 643
Failed MAGIC roll
563
To renounce the worship of Sig, you must pay 50 Shards in
compensation to the priesthood.
‘Sig will no longer watch over you!’ says a priest.
If you are certain you want to renounce Sig’s worship, cross
off the 50 Shards, erase Sig from the God box on your
Adventure Sheet, and lose 1 point of THIEVERY.
‘The dungeons are full of would-be rogues who renounced
the faith!’ yells a priest as you leave.
Turn to 100.
564
You tell the high priest about the Curse of Tyrnai.
‘Ah, I see. Well, you have to appease the god. You need a
weapon (COMBAT +1), which you can buy in most markets,
or acquire by some other means. Throw the weapon into the
holy waters at the village of Blessed Springs, and ask for his
forgiveness.’
Acquire the codeword Appease and turn to 100.
565
Make a THIEVERY roll at Difficulty 10.
Successful THIEVERY roll

turn to 654

54 The War-Torn Kingdom
Failed THIEVERY roll

turn to 376

566
You are discovered hiding in the kitchen pantry. You are hauled
off and thrown into the dungeons to await judgement – lose all
your money and possessions and turn to 454.
567
‘You are not worthy,’ he says gruffly, and walks on without a
backward glance.
You sense it would not be wise to press him further. Turn to
412.
568
The temple of Elnir is a single spire reaching skywards. Eagles
roost in its lofty belfry – they are sacred to the priests of the
Skylord. Elnir is the Divine Ruler of the Heavens, patron of
statesmen and kings, and his sons are the stormlords.
‘Thunder is the sound of the Sons of Elnir smiting the cloud
demons,’ says a passing peasant.
Become an initiate
turn to 440
Renounce worship
turn to 241
Seek a blessing
turn to 73
Leave the temple
turn to 100
569
You will have to fight them one at a time. They are tough
opponents because their skin is made of iron.
First Golem, COMBAT 5, Defence 11, Stamina 10
Second Golem, COMBAT 5, Defence 11, Stamina 10
If you win, turn to 162. If you lose, turn to 488.
570
‘Aargh, you fiendish human!’ roars the tree, flailing its branches
at you. You must fight.
Tree Guard, COMBAT 3, Defence 7, Stamina 10
If you reduce the tree to 5 or less Stamina points, turn to 148. If
you lose, you are battered into unconsciousness and wake up in
the Trading Post on 1 Stamina with all your money gone – turn
to 195.
571
The merchants’ guild of Marlock City is a large, many-storeyed
building of marble. Inside, many clerks and scribes are at work.
Here you can bank your money for safekeeping, or invest it in
guild enterprises in the hope of making a profit. A sign on the
guildmaster’s door reads ‘Help wanted.’
Visit the guildmaster
turn to 290
Make an investment
turn to 104
Check on investments
turn to 88
Deposit or withdraw money
turn to 605
Return to the town centre
turn to 100
572
You open the door on to a large dining hall and kitchen. About
thirty ratmen are standing around, eating and drinking.
Everything goes quiet as they turn to stare at you with their
black beady eyes.
‘Er, I do have an invitation,’ you stutter, holding up the
note.
‘And we’d love to have you for dinner,’ one of them snarls.

Yelling noisily, they charge toward you. You have little
choice but to turn and flee for your life! You race down the
sewer tunnels, with the ratmen in hot pursuit.
Lose them in the tunnels
turn to 79
Try some magic
turn to 296
Hide
turn to 127
573
To renounce the worship of the Three Fortunes, you will have
to undergo a ritual.
‘We must determine what the Three Fortunes have to say
about the matter,’ says the high priest.
Roll one die. On a 1 or a 2, you are free to go, on a 3 or 4
you must pay 25 Shards in compensation, and on 5 or 6, they
demand a sacrifice of some of your blood – lose 1 Stamina point.
Do you want to reconsider? If you are determined to
renounce your faith, pay whatever price the die dictates, and
delete The Three Fortunes from the God box on your
Adventure Sheet.
When you have finished here, turn to 86.
574
‘Ah, the saviour of the citadel. What can I do for you?’ asks the
general.
He can arrange for you to be healed of all your wounds,
cured of poison and disease (but his court sorcerer cannot lift a
curse).
If you have no weapons or armour anywhere at all, he will
give you an ordinary sword and a suit of chain mail
(Defence+1). If you are completely out of money, with no
Shards either banked or invested with the merchants’ guild, or
stored at a town house, he will give you 200 Shards.
‘Any time you are in real need, just come to me,’ he adds.
If you have a coded missive, turn to 677. Otherwise, turn to
100.
575
You hand him the black dragon shield. Cross it off your
Adventure Sheet, and lose the codeword Axe.
‘You are indeed worthy,’ he says.
‘And will you teach me your fighting arts?’ you ask.
‘You have already learned all I can teach you,’ he says.
You realise that what he says is true – your defeat of the
Black Dragon Knight has taught you much. Gain 1 Rank and
roll one die. The score is the number of Stamina points you can
add to your unwounded total, permanently. Also, don’t forget to
increase your Defence by 1 as a result of your gain in Rank.
You look up, but Yanryt the Son has gone.
Turn to 400.
576
You are up the Stinking River, near its source – the Lake of the
Sea Dragon. From here, the yellow waters rush down to the sea.
The smell of the bubbling, sulphur-laden water is abominable.
Go to the Lake of the Sea Dragon
turn to 135
Follow the river south
turn to 310
Go west to the road
turn to 558
East into the countryside
turn to 278

The War-Torn Kingdom 55
577
You recognize the tracks as those of the legendary gorlock. You
remember that it is said to have backward-pointing feet, so that
the tracks it leaves will always show the opposite direction of
travel! This means that the gorlock is currently inside the cave.
Challenge the beast to combat
turn to 174
Wait for it to leave the cave
turn to 287
578
The villagers welcome you as the one who brought Fourze to
justice, and saved their people from slavery. Turn back to 427
and read on.
579
You are travelling across flatlands. The River Grimm splits into
a delta here, spilling its waters into the sea. Long, sandy beaches
stretch out to sea. Roll one die.
Score 1 or 2 Bitten by a crab! Lose 1 Stamina
Score 3 or 4 Nothing happens
Score 5 or 6 Find an ink sac washed up on the shore
When you are ready, you can:
Go to Marlock City
turn to 100
Follow the river north
turn to 99
Travel west into Golnir
Cities of Gold and Glory 219
580
You wait for things to die down, and make your way back to
the door marked ‘Thrown Rum’. Ignoring the kitchens, you go
through. Turn to 202.
581
You try to cut the king down, but at the last moment, he
catches your wrist. His face is a mask of hate and rage.
‘Traitorous viper!’ he hisses, before shouting for the guards. You
are forced to flee for your life.
Although you make it out of the stockade, you are caught in
a narrow defile and seized by many men. You are hauled before
Captain Vorkung, who looks sick and ashen-faced – he let you
in to see the king in the first place.
You are sentenced to be hanged; the sentence is carried out
immediately. Your adventures are over, unless you have a
resurrection deal.
582
Before you have time to react, the dragon’s massive tail smashes
into the keel of your boat, lifting it out of the water, and
breaking it in two. You are pitched into the sulphurous lake,
with a rabid sea dragon closing in, intent on swallowing you
whole!
Roll one die. If you score less than or equal to your Rank,
turn to 637. Otherwise, turn to 477.
583
Your ship is thrown about like flotsam and jetsam. When the
storm subsides, you take stock. Much has been swept overboard
– you lose 1 Cargo Unit, if you had any, of your choice. Also,
the ship has been blown way off course and the mate has no idea
where you are. ‘We’re lost at sea, Cap’n!’ he moans. Turn to 90.

584
‘How can I come out to you? I would drown in the sea – is that
what you plan?’ you ask angrily.
‘Don’t you know?’ sighs one of them. ‘The kiss of the merfolk gives the power to breathe the waters to one of your kind
for a short time!’
The others laugh mischieveously.
Be kissed by the merfolk
turn to 254
Return to the clifftop tor
turn to 35
585
You trail Fourze to the old farm. He goes inside, and you creep
to see what he is doing.
Two rough-looking thugs are helping Fourze get into what
is obviously a monster suit! It’s a bit like a giant hairy toad, made
of the hide of some animal stretched over a wooden framework.
So much for the dreaded Gob-gobbler!
You wait by the door. As the thugs emerge, you club one to
the ground, but you will have to fight the other one.
Bandit, COMBAT 4, Defence 6, Stamina 6
If you win, turn to 236. If you lose, you are dead unless you
have a resurrection deal.
586
Heavy black clouds race towards you across the sky, whipping
the waves into a frenzy. The crew mutter among themselves
fearfully. If you have the blessing of Alvir and Valmir, which
confers Safety from Storms, you can ignore the storm. Cross off
the blessing and turn to 85. Otherwise the storm hits with full
fury. Roll one die if your ship is a barque, two dice if it is a
brigantine, or three dice if a galleon. Add 1 to the roll if you
have a good crew; add 2 if it is an excellent crew.
Score 1-3
Ship sinks
turn to 182
Score 4-5
The mast splits
turn to 530
Score 6-20 You weather the storm
turn to 85
587
While taking a stroll through the busy harbour area, you
overhear a conversation between two merchants and learn the
most profitable trading routes between Sokara and Golnir.
Record the codeword Almanac.
Turn to 10 and chose again.
588
You break past the militia, leap over the table and rush out of
the door. From behind you can hear muffled curses and then a
fiery blast which sizzles wetly in the damp yellow fog, but you
don’t look back and you don’t stop running until you are well
clear of the house. turn to 10.
589
Striding purposefully into the tavern, you walk straight up to
him and say, ‘I want what you’ve got under that eyepatch.’
His one good eye widens in surprise, and he jumps back,
drawing his sword.
‘We’ll see about that, by Sig!’ he cries.
The other people in the tavern draw back to give you room
and start taking bets on the outcome of the fight.
Man with eyepatch, COMBAT 5, Defence 8, Stamina 12

56 The War-Torn Kingdom
If you win, turn to 92. If you lose, the man with the eyepatch
kills you – your adventuring days are over, unless you have a
resurrection deal.
590
From the cover of a hedge you wait until dusk. By now all the
villagers are safely indoors with their shutters tightly barred.
As the sky is turning from velvet indigo to the starlit
blackness of night, you see three pale figures come loping across
the green from the direction of the millpond. They must be the
ghosts.
Seeing the banquet, they utter gleeful cries and start to
devour what has been set out for them.
Make a MAGIC roll at a Difficulty of 11.
Successful MAGIC roll
turn to 231
Failed MAGIC roll
turn to 357
591
You find yourself washed up on a rocky shore, battered and
cold, but lucky to be alive. You are almost certain you have cast
away on the beaches of Scorpion Bight. You have no choice but
to head inland. Turn to 32.
592
Make a MAGIC roll at Difficulty 11.
Successful MAGIC roll
Failed MAGIC roll

turn to 638
turn to 111

593
You are under a curse. You remember what you were told – to
life the curse, you have to throw a weapon (COMBAT +1) into
the waters. If you have such a weapon, and want to throw it
away, turn to 354. If not, turn to 450.
594
‘Oh, it’s you again,’ says the tree grumpily. ‘All right, off you
go.’ The tree uproots itself and shuffles out of your way, leaving
you free to visit the City of Trees once more. Turn to 358.
595
You will have to sneak in around the hall to get behind the
king. There are plenty of shadows to hide in but it will not be
easy. Make a THIEVERY roll at Difficulty 11.
turn to 608
Successful THIEVERY roll
Failed THIEVERY roll
turn to 475
596
You thread your way through the ranks of trees. In places, the
forest canopy almost blocks out the sunlight completely, and you
are wandering in deep shadow, haunted by the cries of the
creatures of the forest. If you have an oak staff, turn to 653
immediately. If not, read on.
You hack your way through the undergrowth until you
stumble across an old ruin. Creepers, and forest moss have
grown over most of it, but you can see mask-like faces set into
the walls, glaring down at you as if in angry outrage at your
intrusion. You come to a massive stone slab – clearly a door. Set
into the middle of it is a round, granite face, the visage of a
sleeping demon. Suddenly, an eye pops open, and regards you
curiously.

‘By the Tentacles of Tantallon!’ exclaims the face in a
gravelly voice. ‘A human! I haven’t seen one of you lot for a
hundred years.’ An expression of suspicion forms on its rocky
features. ‘What do you want, anyway?’
‘Just passing through,’ you comment airily.
‘Well you can’t pass through me unless you know the
password. And that was given to me by Astrallus the Wizard
King, umm... let me see, now... a thousand years ago, by Ebron!
This is his tomb, you know.’
If you have the codeword Crag, turn to 160. Otherwise, read
on.
‘How do I find the password then?’ you ask.
‘Well,’ says the demon door, ‘Astrallus was a wizard, so why
don't you ask some wizards?’
‘Where would I find some wizards?’ you ask.
‘How would I know?’ replies the door testily. ‘I’ve been
stuck here for a thousand years!’
You decide it is time to leave.
North to the Bronze Hills
turn to 110
West to the River Grimm
turn to 333
South into the country
turn to 560
East to the road
turn to 387
597
‘You did it!’ exclaims the warden happily, taking the ghoul’s
head and placing it in a jar. Cross it off your Adventure Sheet.
You can have a choice of reward: an amber wand (+1
MAGIC), 500 Shards, or a free resurrection deal, if you do not
have one already. You can choose only one of these three
rewards.
To arrange resurrection, write ‘Temple of Nagil – The WarTorn Kingdom 350)’ in the Resurrection box on your Adventure
Sheet. If you are later killed, turn to 350 in this book.
Finally, if you are suffering from Ghoulbite disease, turn to
156. Otherwise, you return to town: turn to 100.
598
You strip off, and wade into the bubbling waters. The effect is
astonishing! You feel a sense of well-being coursing through
your body. If you are suffering from disease or poison, you are
cured instantly, and can restore your abilities to normal.
When you are ready to leave, turn to 510.
599
Resurrection costs 200 Shards if you are an initiate, and 800
Shards if not. It is the last word in insurance. Once you have
arranged for resurrection you need not fear death, as you will be
magically restored to life here at the temple.
To arranged resurrection, pay the fee and write ‘Temple of
Tyrnai – The War-Torn Kingdom 500’ in the Resurrection box
on your Adventure Sheet. If you are later killed, turn to 500 in
this book. You can have only one resurrection arranged at any
one time. If you arranged another resurrection later at a different
temple, the original one is cancelled – cross it off your
Adventure Sheet, you do not get a refund.
When you are finished here, turn to 526.
600
You wait until Thursday. Lynn tells you that the disappearances
happened a little way out of town, near an old farmhouse.

The War-Torn Kingdom 57
As you leave town, you notice Fourze, the Master of the
Market, heading in the opposite direction.
Follow Fourze
turn to 383
Head for the old farm
turn to 263
601
The palace, the home of Protector General Grieve Marlock, is
an imposing building of astonishing luxury. You get as far a
huge reception area, manned by many guards and staffed by
government officials.
If you have the title Protector of Sokara, turn to 669. If not,
you are thrown out. Turn to 100.
602
You are travelling the road between the Shadar Tor and
Trefoille. You pass a convoy of masons, carpenters and builders
heading for Trefoille with an escort of Sokaran soldiers.
Go to Trefoille
turn to 250
Head for the Shadar Tor
turn to 35
603
If you are an initiate it costs only 20 Shards to purchase the
Three Fortunes’ blessing. A non-initiate must pay 80 Shards.
Cross off the money and mark Luck in the Blessings box on
your Adventure Sheet. The blessing works by allowing you to
reroll any dice result once. When you use the blessing, cross it
off your Adventure Sheet. You can have only one Luck blessing
at any one time. Once it is used up, you can return to any
branch of the temple of the Three Fortunes to buy a new one.
When you are finished here, turn to 86.
604
The men mutter among themselves at your decision, but you
insist. The sea centaur lies barely able to move on the deck. Nor
does it speak.
That night, you see a strange glow rising up out of the
depths. The sailors back away, muttering superstitiously, as
several sea centaurs emerge from the waters, their spiny skins
glittering with phosphorescent flashes of light.
One of the sea centaurs asks in a burbling voice, ‘Where is
our brother, whom you caught in your cruel nets, this day?’
‘Why, here he is,’ you say, indicating the half-conscious sea
centaur on deck.
‘Return him to us, we beg you,’ one of them warbles.
Your men, anxious to be rid of the creature, hand him down
to his friends.
‘We thank you, landwalkers,’ says the leader.
He gives you a conch of safety from storms x 3. When
you blow it, it confers the blessing of Safety from Storms. It can
be used three times only (each time you use it reduce the
number of charges by one). When it is out of charges, it has
become useless – cross it off your Adventure Sheet.
Turn to 507.
605
You can bank money with the merchants’ guild simply by
writing the sum you wish to deposit in the box here.
(Remember to cross it off your Adventure Sheet.) If you have
banked any money with the guild in another book in the Fabled
Land series, add it now to this box and erase it from the other
book.

To withdraw money from your account, simply transfer it
from the box to your Adventure Sheet. The guild charges 10%
on any withdrawals. (So if you withdrew 50 Shards, for
example, the guild would deduct 5 Shards as its cut. Round
fractions in the guild’s favour.)
When you are ready to leave:
In Yellowport
turn to 10
In Marlock City
turn to 100
In Caran Baru
turn to 400
If paying a ransom
turn to 501
Money banked

606
You thread your way carefully through the maze of magical
symbols, until you reach the sarcophagus safely. Inside you find
the mouldering bones of a long dead wizard, in whose skeletal
hands you find the Book of Excellence.
As you scan the pages, you learn all sorts of new tricks – add
one to the ability of your choice (such as SCOUTING or
COMBAT) permanently. Once you have read it, the book
disappears with a flash.
You thread your way out of the Tomb of the Wizard King,
back into the Forest of Larun. Turn to 47.
607
Your ship, crew and cargo are lost to the deep, dark sea. Cross
them off the Ship’s Manifest.
Your only thought now is to save yourself. Roll two dice. If
the score is greater than your Rank, you are drowned – turn to
680. If the score is less than or equal to your Rank, you manage
to find some driftwood, and make it back to shore. Lose Stamina
points equal to the score of one die roll and, if you can survive
that, turn to 447.
608
You inch your way slowly around the edge of the old temple.
Suddenly, you burst out of the shadows and cut the king down,
catching the ratmen by surprise.
At the sight of you standing over their dead king, the four
remaining ratmen flee in terror. Without their king, they have
no spirit for a fight.
Turn to 554.
609
You recognise the two iron statues of bull-men that guard the
temple. They are golems, creatures created by powerful sorcery.
They will animate and attempt to kill any intruders that steal
into the temple. Golems are almost impossible to defeat in
combat, but they have one weakness – a ceramic plug, about the
size of an apple, set into the backs of their heads. If the plug can
be pulled out, the enchanted liquid that energizes the golem will
pour out, and the creature will die.
That night, you resolve to try to get on to the roof of the
temple, hang down from the gables above the entrance, and pull
the plugs on the golems, before going for the chain mail.

58 The War-Torn Kingdom
Turn to 441.
610
If there is a tick in the box, you find nothing of interest at the
market – turn back to 400 immediately. Otherwise, put a tick in
the box and read on.
At nightfall, the market is kept open for a special sale. A cage
with a steel floor is wheeled out. Inside is a dark, manlike shape.
It seems to radiate shadows, for you can barely make it out.
The slaver says, ‘A trau, ladies and gentlemen. Excellent
miners, though they have to be chained with cold iron at all
times.’
The price is 100 Shards. To buy the trau, cross off the
money and turn to 545. Otherwise, you leave the market, turn
to 400.
611
If you have the codeword Anvil, turn to 130 immediately. If
not, read on.
As you draw nearer, you see that the pennants all represent
different coloured dragons – the red dragon, black dragon, green
dragon and so on. Outside the gates, a jousting list has been set
up, and a few warriors are trying their hand against some knights
who have dragon symbols on their shields.
A knight, in full plate armour, rides up and says, ‘Welcome
to the Castle of the Dragon Knights. It is our custom to joust
against all who would come here – for a wager, of course.’
He explains that you must bet the weapon and the suit of
armour that you will use for the joust. If you lose, you forfeit the
weapon and armour. If you win, you get the armour and
weapon of the knight you defeat. Most of your potential
opponents, you note, would be using a sword and plate armour.
If you have the codeword Axe, turn to 521 immediately.
Otherwise, you can leave, turn to 276, or take the wager and
joust, turn to 297 – you must have a weapon and at least leather
armour.
612
If there is a tick in the box, turn to 549 immediately. If not, put
a tick there now, and read on.
The priestess, who is wearing the skin of a wolf, and is
covered in red paint, welcomes you gleefully.
‘At last, the tusk of a were-boar! Now the ceremony can go
ahead.’
Cross the boar’s tusk off your Adventure Sheet. The
priestess rewards you with knowledge. Add 1 to your
SCOUTING rating permanently.
Turn to 195.
613
Heavy black clouds race towards you across the sky, whipping
the waves into a frenzy. The crew mutter amongst themselves
fearfully. If you have the blessing of Alvir and Valmir, which
confers Safety from Storms, you can ignore the storm. Cross off
your blessing and turn to 439. Otherwise the storm hits with full
fury. Roll one die if you ship is a barque, two dice if it is a
brigantine, or three dice if a galleon. Add 1 to the roll if you
have a good crew; add 2 if the crew is excellent.
Score 1-3
Ship sinks
turn to 485
Score 4-5
The mast splits
turn to 70
Score 6-20 You weather the storm
turn to 439

614
The Stinking River has cut its way through the high ground
here. On the edge of the chasm that overlooks the river lies the
village of High Therys. Just outside of town, three bodies hang
on a gallows, slowly rotting. Inside, the villagers are having a
fete. They welcome you. You can get some rest and
recuperation here – restore up to 5 lost Stamina points.
When you are ready, you leave.
Follow the river north
turn to 576
Follow the river south
turn to 82
Head east into the countryside
turn to 278
Go west to the main road
turn to 558
615
Lacuna is the Goddess of the Moon, and of the Wilderness. She
aids hunters, and woodsmen, and travellers in the lost places of
the world. Her temple here is a long hall of oak, covered in
vines and plants of all kinds. Inside, flowers fill the air with a
pure and clean scent.
Become an initiate
turn to 170
Renounce worship
turn to 253
Seek a blessing
turn to 482
Leave the temple
turn to 400
616
You swim up to your ship, and haul yourself on board. The
crew is astonished to see you.
‘Another one of the sea devils,’ says the first mate.
‘We don’t want any more bad luck,’ says a crew member.
‘Aye, we’ll have to kill this one as well,’ says the first mate.
You try to protest, but your words come out as a bubbling,
fishy warble. The first mate finishes you with his spear. Your
adventuring days are over unless you have a resurrection deal. If
you do have a deal, when you come back to life, note that you
have lost your ship and crew – as far as they are concerned, you
never came back from the depths.
617
A desperate battle ensues.
Ghoul, COMBAT 3, Defence 7, Stamina 15
If you win, turn to 196. If you lose, your adventures are over,
unless you have a resurrection deal.
618
Becoming an initiate of Lacuna gives you the benefit of paying
less for blessings and other services the temple can offer. It costs
30 Shards to become an initiate. You cannot do this if you are
already an initiate of another temple. If you choose to become
an initiate, write Lacuna in the God box on your Adventure
Sheet – and remember to cross off the 30 Shards. Once you
have finished here, turn to 544.
619
If there is a tick in the box, turn to 339 immediately. If not, put
a tick there now, and read on.
You come across a blazing house in the poorer area of town.
A crowd has gathered, watching the flames impassively.
A young girl runs up to you, in tears. ‘My mother is inside!
Please, please help her!’ she begs.

The War-Torn Kingdom 59
The fire is raging hard, and you are not sure whether anyone
could be left alive inside.
Attempt a rescue
turn to 262
Walk on
turn to 100
620
Some local militiamen approach you with ill intent, presumably
with a view to extorting a few Shards. They recognize you as a
favourite of General Marlock, however, and leave you well
alone, bowing and scraping to avoid your anger. Nothing else
occurs this night. Turn to 100.
621
The coast road between Yellowport and Venefax is wellmaintained and you make good time. You pass a few army
patrols but they leave you alone.
Travel to Blessed Springs
turn to 510
Head for Venefax
turn to 427
Go north across country
turn to 548
South to Yellowport
turn to 10
622
The last time you were here, you had only a few minutes to
grab some loot. Desperately, you search around for the magic
chest that Oliphard the Wizardly wanted you to get for him.
You find it – note the magic chest on your Adventure Sheet –
but the sea dragon returns almost straight away, and you are
forced to climb out of the hole in the roof without getting
anything more, save for a pouch of 50 Shards.
You crawl out on to the island in the middle of the lake and
hitch a boat ride back to Cadmium. During the journey, you
examine the magic chest, but it is guarded by great sorcery and
is impossible to open.
Delete the codeword Avenge and turn to 135.
623
You clamber down a ladder into a long, low hall, the Venefax
Market.
Items with no purchase price listed are not available locally.
Armour
Leather (Defence +1)
Ring mail (Defence +2)

To buy
50 Shards
–

To sell
45 Shards
90 Shards

Weapons (sword, axe, etc)
Without COMBAT bonus
COMBAT bonus +1

To buy
50 Shards
–

To sell
40 Shards
200 Shards

Other items
Rope
Lantern
Climbing gear
Scorpion antidote

To buy
50 Shards
100 Shards
100 Shards
100 Shards

To sell
45 Shards
90 Shards
90 Shards
90 Shards

When you are finished, turn to 427.
624
To renounce the worship of Alvir and Valmir, you must pay 30
Shards in compensation to the priesthood. The priest says
nothing, he just points to a mural on the wall. It depicts the
story of a woman who left the temple – a storm destroyed her

ship and she drowned, to spend eternity as a lost soul, cleaning
the barnacles off the thrones of Alvir and Valmir.
Do you want to change your mind? If you are determined to
renounce your faith, pay the 30 Shards and delete Alvir and
Valmir from the God box on your Adventure Sheet.
When you have finished here, turn to 220.
625
You realize that you have committed an act of sacrilege by
stealing from the temple – you know in your heart that Tyrnai
has cursed you.
You will never be a great fighter while you suffer the wrath
of Tyrnai. Subtract 1 from your COMBAT ability until you can
find a way of lifting the curse. Perhaps the priests of Sig in
Marlock City can help you. Note that you are under ‘Tyrnai’s
Curse, -1 COMBAT.’
You sneak out of the temple. Turn to 400.
626
You recite a devotional prayer to the gods, calling on your faith
to aid you. The goblin folk are repelled by your piety, and
purity of spirit. Even Gobrash finds the strength to get out from
under you, and run off, such is your effect on them.
‘Eeaurgh!’ snarls the queen, recoiling, ‘Please, your godliness
is harmful to us. Here, take this and leave!’
A jug of faery mead and an enchanted spear (COMBAT
+2) are pushed towards you. Note them on your Adventure
Sheet.
The wall behind you shimmers and disappears – you step
through, back into the cold, night air of the Curstmoor. You
leave the faery mound far behind, and camp for the night. The
next day, you resume your travels.
Go north across country
turn to 560
Head east to the road
turn to 558
Go to Trefoille
turn to 250
Go to Marlock City
turn to 100
Head west towards the River Grimm
turn to 99
627
A bard in the tavern recites an epic tale of ancient legend. He
speaks of Xinoc the Priest King, the ruler of a mighty nation in
the distant steppes, far to the north. A thousand years ago his
empire flourished, and his wealth was enormous. He was buried
in a great pyramid tomb, along with his riches. It is said the
Pyramid of Xinoc lies beyond the Spine of Harkun, and beyond
the Great Steppes, in the foothills of the Peaks at the Edge of the
World. You question him further, but that is all he knows. You
leave the tavern. Turn to 10.
628
After a hard climb, you are half-way up the side of a mountain
when you discover a thin, precarious path, leading up. The sun
beats down, and you are sweating heavily. You take a swig of
water from your canteen and proceed up the path.
After a while you have to stop to take more water. To your
horror, your water supply has turned sour and undrinkable!
Make a MAGIC roll at Difficulty 10.
Successful MAGIC roll
turn to 374
turn to 643
Failed MAGIC roll

60 The War-Torn Kingdom
629
The soldier recognises you and leads you to see the king.
Nergan is pleased to see you. ‘Have you succeeded in ridding us
of Marloes?’ he asks eagerly.
If you have the codeword Assassin, turn to 256 immediately.
If not, read on.
You say that you have not completed your mission.
‘What are you doing here, then?’ There is nothing I can do
to help you – you will just have to use your own wits. Now go
– fulfill my royal command!’ says the king.
You are escorted to the foothills of the mountains. Turn to
474.
630
You struggle deeper into the forest until you come to a thick
wall of impenetrable thorn bushes. Circling it, you find there is a
break in the hedge, but it is filled by a large tree.
To your surprise, a face forms in the trunk, and speaks in a
woody voice, ‘None can pass – begone, human!’
If you have the codeword Apple, turn to 594. If not, you
can:
Return to the Trading Post
turn to 195
Attack the tree
turn to 570
Try to persuade it to let you pass
turn to 237
631
The soldier nods. Suddenly, he shouts something and several
archers pop up from behind rocks and start shooting at you. An
arrow embeds itself in your shoulder. Lose 3 Stamina points. If
you still live, you realize you are a sitting duck, and you run for
your life.
As you climb down, you are shot at again. Roll one die.
Score 1 or 2 Hit twice, lose 6 Stamina
Score 3 or 4 Hit once, lose 3 Stamina
Score 5 or 6 Missed completely, no wounds
After that, if you are still alive, you make it back to the
foothills of the mountains. Turn to 474.
632
Make a SANCTITY roll at Difficulty 12.
Successful SANCTITY roll
Failed SANCTITY roll

turn to 392
turn to 125

633
Your unerring sense of direction, even at sea, serves you well. It
is not long before you find a familiar stretch of coast.
Roll one die.
Score 1 or 2
turn to 120
Score 3 or 4
turn to 430
Score 5 or 6
turn to 136
634
The climb is slightly easier than the last time, and you heave
yourself over the lip of the top of Devil’s Peak. A gryphon – a
creature that is half lion, half eagle, and at least the same size as
you – has made its nest here. It immediately swoops in to the
attack, intent on protecting its nest. You must fight.
Gryphon, COMBAT 4, Defence 5, Stamina 7
If you lose, you are birdfeed for gryphon chicks – your
adventures are over.

If you win, you find a bag of pearls and 10 Shards in the
nest. There is nothing else up here, so you slog all the way down
again. Turn to 658.
635
If the box above is empty, put a tick in it now and turn to 80. If
it is already ticked, turn to 470.
636
Becoming an initiate of Tyrnai gives you the benefit of paying
less for blessings and other services the temple can offer. To
qualify as an initiate you must have a COMBAT score of at least
6. Unlike other temples, there is no entry fee. You cannot
become an initiate of Tyrnai if you are already an initiate of
another temple. If you choose to become an initiate (and meet
the qualification) write Tyrnai in the God box on your
Adventure Sheet.
Once you have finished here, turn to 282.
637
Somehow you manage to evade the creature’s jaws, and swim
back to shore. Hauling yourself up on to the beach, you are
assaulted by an angry villager.
‘Where’s my boat?’ he cries, ‘You’ve sunk it, haven’t you?
You city types don’t know a thing! Well, you’ll have to pay me
back – fifty Shards at least!’
‘Hah!’ you reply, ‘The cost of hiring it was more than its
worth in any case. As far as I’m concerned, that boat was mine
to do with as I liked!’
The argument goes on all the way back to the village but
eventually the fisherman gives up and storms off.
Turn to 135.
638
You know from ancient texts of arcane lore that the repulsive
ones cannot stand bright light. Using all your magical power,
you cause the glowing moss to emit a dazzling flash of yellow
light. Blinded for a few seconds, the repulsive ones mill about
helplessly, and you dart in and seize the golden net (note it on
your Adventure Sheet).
You swim for the Shadar Tor as fast as you can. From here,
you can:
Take the road to Trefoille
turn to 602
Take the road to Marlock City
turn to 166
639
Heavy black clouds race towards you across the sky, whipping
the waves into a frenzy. The crew mutter among themselves
fearfully. If you have the blessing of Alvir and Valmir, which
confers Safety from Storms, you can ignore the storm. Cross off
your blessing and turn to 507. Otherwise the storm hits with full
fury.
Roll one die if your ship is a barque, two dice if it is a
brigantine, or three dice if it is a galleon. Add 1 to the roll if you
have a good crew; add 2 if you have excellent crew.
Score 1-3
Ship sinks
turn to 219
Score 4-5
The mast splits
turn to 67
Score 6-20 You weather the storm
turn to 507

The War-Torn Kingdom 61
640
You are restored to life at the war god’s temple in Caran Baru.
Your Stamina is back to its normal score. The possessions and
cash you were carrying at the time of your death are lost. Cross
them off your Adventure Sheet. Also remember to delete the
entry in the Resurrection box now it has been used.
The high priest, sweating from the effort of the ceremony of
resurrection, says, ‘Tyrnai has brought you back – honour him
by the upholding the code of the warrior and by sending many
the souls of those slain in the battle to him.’
Turn to 282.
641
‘Want to try your luck in the Gambler’s Den?’ asks a short, dark
man, dressed as a mercenary bodyguard. ‘Just 5 Shards entrance
fee.’
He nods to a door at the top of some rickety stairs.
If you pay the money, cross it off and turn to 91. If not, he
shrugs, and hisses at another passerby. You wander off and pass
an uneventful evening, turn to 100.
642
You open the cage door. A wide grin suddenly appears at about
head height within the dark shadows that wreath the trau. All
you can see is a huge sliver of a grin, topped by two glowing red
eyes.
‘Free at last!’ gushes the trau as it leaps out. ‘Now for home,
and as much faery mead as I can drink!’
With that, it delves into the ground so fast that it has
burrowed out of sight before you can do anything to stop it.
Shrugging your shoulders resignedly, you leave the market.
Turn to 400.
643
Gamely, you drive yourself on, but your thirst is becoming
terrible, and soon you will be unable to continue. If you go on,
you might die of thirst before finding a water supply.
Turn back
turn to 244
Press on
turn to 78
644
Using your sorcerous powers you breathe a cloud of greenish
vapour over the ratmen. Coughing and gasping, they sink into
an enchanted slumber. It is an easy matter to despatch them
while they sleep. Turn to 554.
645
If there is a tick in the box, turn to 248 immediately. If not, put
a tick there now, and read on.
You are brought before the druids’ leader, the Oak Druid, a
bearded fellow with earth and leaves all tangled up in his hair.
He asks you to perform a service for them.
‘Take this oak staff to the Willow Druid in the forest of
Larun. The sacred grove where he lives will be hard to find, but
I’m sure you can do it. The Willow Druid will give you
something to bring back to me. When you return with it, I will
make you a better Wayfarer.’
Note the oak staff on your Adventure Sheet. You leave the
City of Trees, turn to 678.

646
Your mind is blasted into numb confusion by the protective
spells that guard the sacred grove. You wander off aimlessly into
the forest, and get hopelessly lost for days. You don’t even have
the wit to eat and drink – lose 3 Stamina points. If you are still
alive, you wander through the forest until you emerge, at last, at
the Bronze Hills. Turn to 110.
647
As you reach for the back of the golem’s head, it turns and grabs
your arm, yanking you to the ground. Then it swings its club at
your head.
Run away
turn to 349
Fight the golem
turn to 81
648
You remain quiet as a mouse, behind a pile of coins. After a
long wait, the sea dragon slithers into the water, and swims out
on some errand.
You have some time to loot the hoard. You scrabble about
for the chest that Oliphard the Wizardly wanted you to find for
him. You find a rune-covered box which is positively glowing
with magic. Note the magic chest on your Adventure Sheet.
You can also choose up to three treasures from the following:
Enchanted sword (COMBAT +3)
Plate armour (Defence +5)
Ebony wand (MAGIC +2)
500 Shards
Magic mandolin (CHARISMA +2)
Gold compass (SCOUTING +2)
Magic lockpicks (THIEVERY +2)
Silver holy symbol (SANCTITY +2)
After you have taken the third treasure, you hear the sea
dragon returning. Quickly you climb up through the hole in the
roof on to an island in the middle of the lake. From there, you
manage to get a lift on a passing boat, and make it safely to
Cadmium village.
During the journey, you examine the magic chest, but it is
guarded by great sorcery and is impossible to open.
Delete the codeword Avenge and turn to 135.
649
If there is a tick in the box, turn to 114 immediately. If not, put
a tick there now, and read on.
The chief administrator is overjoyed to see you. The priests
already know you have been successful in freeing Sul Veneris,
the Lord of Thunder, because their crystal ball shows them that
the storm demons have been driven away.
As a reward you receive the tuition of several high priests.
You gain 1 Rank. Roll a single die. The result is the number of
Stamina points you gain permanently. Also, don’t forget to
increase your Defence by 1 as a result of your gain in Rank.
‘Visit me anytime,’ says the chief administrator when you
leave. Turn to 100.
650
Cross the moonstone off your Adventure Sheet. There is a
flash, and suddenly you find yourself in a warm, comfortable
room, beside Elissia the Traveller, the sorceress you rescued
from her burning house.

62 The War-Torn Kingdom
Elissia will heal you of all lost Stamina points, if you are
wounded, and cure you of any diseases or poisons you may be
suffering from.
‘My debt to you is now paid,’ she says. With that, she passes
her hands through the air, and disappears in a cloud of smoke!
You find yourself in an inn at Marlock City. You venture
out into town, slightly dazed. Turn to 100.
651
The trau, realizing its fate, sinks into a dark clouding silence.
You haul it off to the mines where the overseer, a fat, cruellooking man, gives you 150 Shards for the trau.
You return to town. Turn to 400.
652
You clamber up until you come to a mountain track. It rises up
between a cleft in the rock, ahead of you.
A man steps out in front of you. He is clearly a soldier, but
his clothes are rough and ready, as if he had been living in the
wild for some time.
If you have the title King’s Champion, turn to 2. If not, but
you have the codeword Ambuscade, turn to 629. If you have
neither of the above, but you do have the codeword Ark, turn
to 353. Otherwise read on.
The soldier looks you over critically. He signals that he
wants to parley with you.
Talk to him
turn to 557
Attack him straight away
turn to 49
653
You are on a quest to take the oak staff to the Willow Druid
who lives in a sacred grove somewhere in the forest. You
wander around, looking for unusual tracks, strange creatures,
anything that might lead you to a druid’s den.
Make a SCOUTING roll at Difficulty 12
Successful SCOUTING roll
turn to 217
turn to 7
Failed SCOUTING roll
654
You slip out of your chains, and hide inside an ore-laden mining
cart. When it is taken out of the mine, you creep out, and run
off into the hills. Eventually you reach Caran Baru.
Turn to 400.
655
If there is a tick in the box, turn to 574 immediately. If not, put
a tick there now, and read on.
The general greets you with a smile and embraces you,
saying, ‘You have served me beyond my expectations, my
friend!’
A servant drags over a heavy chest, and Grieve Marlock flips
open the lid with his sword. Inside is 1000 Shards! ‘Yours’, he
says with a grin. Note the money on your Adventure Sheet.
He also gives you a title – in this case, whatever the title is of
your next Rank. Gain 1 Rank, and roll a die. The result is the
number of Stamina points you gain permanently. Also, don’t
forget to increase your Defence by 1 as a result of your gain in
Rank.
As you leave, he says, ‘ Don’t hesitate to ask, if you need
anything.’

If you have a coded missive, turn to 677. If not, turn to
100.
656
You find a large, red pavillion which has been erected over a
ruin. Oliphard the Wizardly is inside. He greets you warmly. If
you have a magic chest, turn to 672. If not, read on.
If you have a verdigris key, turn to 431. If not, read on.
Oliphard can use his sorcery to teleport you instantly to
certain places at a cost of 100 Shards a journey. If you want to
be teleported, cross off the money and choose from the
following destinations:
Marlock City
turn to 100
Caran Baru
turn to 400
Wishport
Cities of Gold and Glory 217
Dweomer
Over the Blood-Sea 100
Otherwise you can travel more conventionally.
Take the road to the Shadar Tor
turn to 602
Take the road to Marlock City
turn to 377
Head into the Curstmoor
turn to 175
Take the road north
turn to 558
Take the road to Yellowport
turn to 233
657
The creature falls dead. You can squeeze a little of its venom
from its sting – if you do so, note the scorpion venom on your
Adventure Sheet.
If you were wounded in the fight, you have been poisoned
by the scorpion man’s venom. Subtract 1 from your COMBAT,
THIEVERY, and SCOUTING abilities, as you are severely
weakened (although no ability can drop to zero). Note that you
are poisoned – you can restore your abilities to normal if you get
cured. If you have some scorpion antidote, it will cure the
poison immediately – cross the antidote off your Adventure
Sheet.
You wander on until you come to a ridge. Down below, in
a shallow valley, is a great mound of earth. Many burrows have
been dug through it, and scorpion men are crawling in and out.
This is the mound of the scorpion men – their home.
If you have the codeword Artefact, turn to 406. If not, you
realize that it would simply be too dangerous to venture down
there. You head back towards Venefax. Turn to 492.
658
You are standing at the bottom of the Devil’s Peak. It is a
massive tower of black rock, like a stone tree-trunk, bare and
branchless, climbing up into the sky. You cannot see the top, for
it is shrouded in grey clouds. Thunder and lightning play about
the clouded summit.
The sides of the peak are almost sheer, but there are many
hand and footholds. It can be climbed, but only if you have
some climbing gear. If you have and you want to make the
ascent, turn to 340. Otherwise, turn to 560.
659
You untie the little creature from its bonds. It gives a jubilant
cry, and soars upwards.
‘Thank you, large one!’ it chatters, ‘My name is Pikalik the
Wing-warrior! We never forget – one day I will pay my debt.’
With that, he flitters away into the clouds.

The War-Torn Kingdom 63
‘That’s 75 Shards you just let fly away,’ comments the man
in the palanquin wryly, ‘Mannekyn People can’t be trusted,
believe me.’
You leave the slave market. Acquire the codeword Altruist
and turn to 400.

You can attempt to convince Captain Vorkung that you are
on his side by making a CHARISMA roll at Difficulty 9. You can
add 1 to your roll if you are a Warrior, Rogue, or Wayfarer. If
you succeed, turn to 25. If you fail, turn to 179. Otherwise, you
can climb down the mountains, turn to 474.

660
You are greeted warmly by the commander of the fort, whose
daughter, Alissia, embraces you happily.
You can stay here, in comfortable lodgings, free of charge.
You can restore any lost Stamina points, up to your maximum.
When you are ready, you can leave.
East into Nerech
The Plains of Howling
Darkness 225
North west to Fort Mereth
turn to 299
South east to Fort Brilon
turn to 259
West into the farmlands
turn to 548

665
You enter the cave – it is large and dark. Unfortunately, it is the
lair of a pack of wolves – a very big pack of wolves.
If you have a wolf pelt, turn to 516. If not, turn to 280.

661
With a thrill of horror, you realize you have missed your
footing, crossing the wrong line by millimetres. The lid of the
sarcophagus explodes into the air with a deafening crash, and a
pillar of black smoke erupts out of the stone coffin! The column
of smoke hurtles towards you, like a miniature tornado.
If you have a weapon with a +1 COMBAT bonus or greater,
turn to 43. If you have only an ordinary weapon or no weapon
at all, turn to 260.
662
That night, after Lauria has picked the locks on your chains, you
head off for the tunnel rendezvous. You find there has been a
cave-in, but the overseer and a troop of guards are waiting for
you!
Lauria steps out laughing. In return for her betraying you,
the overseer has transferred her to work on the surface, from
which she will be able to escape more easily. You have been
stitched up again!
The overseer has you whipped for trying to escape and you
are left with some nasty scars. Lose 1 point of CHARISMA
permanently.
Gain the codeword Anger, and lose the codeword Ashen.
A few days later, you try another escape on your own. Turn
to 565.
663
They are too fast. You are caught and overwhelmed. You end
up as food for scorpion larvae. Your adventuring days are over,
unless you have a resurrection deal.
664
‘That is fortunate – for you,’ says the soldier. Several archers
stand up from their hiding places behind the rocks overhead.
Another soldier, a captain, comes up to you and introduces
himself as Captain Vorkung.
He is clearly one of the old aristocracy, the nobles loyal to
the king and the old regime, before General Marlock and the
army seized power, and executed the old king. Vorkung tells
you to leave the mountains.
You have found a rebel base – men still loyal to Nergan
Corin, the heir to the throne. Nergan went into hiding when
General Marlock killed his father and took control of Sokara.

666
A trader from the far north tells a story about a great wizard,
Targdaz the Magnificent, who was tricked by a shaman of the
Horde of the Thousand Winds on the Great Steppes.
‘He imprisoned Targdaz inside a giant ruby, and proceeded
to loot Targdaz’s tower. But in his stupidity, he opened the great
wizard’s Casket of Imponderables, and unleashed a terrible storm
that swept across the steppes, scattering many of the tribes far
and wide. The shaman was killed, of course, but as far as anyone
knows, Targdaz is still trapped in the ruby, waiting patiently for
release – perhaps for another hundred years, who knows? One
thing’s for certain – it won’t be me trying to get him out!’
When you are ready, you can go:
South
turn to 558
North
turn to 347
West in the Forest of Larun
turn to 47
East to the lake and Cadmium
turn to 135
667
If there is a tick in the box, turn to 660 immediately. If not, put
a tick there now and read on.
You have rescued Alissia, the commander’s daughter, from
the manbeasts! They have a tearful, joyous reunion – all thanks
to you!
The commander rewards you with combat training. Add one
to your COMBAT ability permanently.
When you are ready, you can leave.
East into Nerech
The Plains of Howling Darkness 225
North west to Fort Mereth
turn to 299
South east to Fort Brilon
turn to 259
West into the Farmlands
turn to 548
668
You are led to a rockface in the mine. You start digging. Roll
two dice and consult the table.
Score 2-4
Rockfall! You lose 2 Stamina
Score 5-8
No luck, and your hour is up
Score 9-12 A silver nugget!
When you are finished (if you are still alive), you leave the
Bronze Hills.
To Caran Baru
turn to 400
South into the Forest of Larun
turn to 47
West to the River Grimm
turn to 333
North into the Western Wilderness
turn to 276
669
You are recognised by an official, and a few moments later, you
are summoned to see the general himself! You are taken to the
throne room, which has been converted to a military style

64 The War-Torn Kingdom
headquarters. If you have the codeword Assist, turn to 102
immediately. If not, read on.
Grieve Marlock is a tall, hook-nosed man, with cold,
penetrating green eyes.
‘You come highly recommended by my brother, the
governor of Yellowport – I was hoping you would turn up,’ he
says in a commanding voice. ‘You did me a great service by
getting rid of that pompous fool, Nergan.
‘Now there is one more thing I need you for. The Citadel of
Velis Corin, which sits astride the Pass of Eagles in the far north,
is under imminent attack from an army of the steppes. The
attackers are a rag-tag bunch of malcontents – nomads,
Mannekyn People, some trau even, and of course, the usual
traitorous dogs still loyal to the old king – may his soul burn in
the hells, ha, ha, ha!’
‘I need you to go to the citadel, discuss the situation with
Commandant Orin Telana, and do all you can to make sure that
the citadel doesn’t fall. I’m relying on you!’
Record the codeword Assist.
If you have a coded missive, turn to 677 immediately. If
not, you are escorted out. Turn to 100.
670
You feel a wrenching moment of disorientation, and then you
suddenly appear with a flash beside a ruined, burnt-out city. A
passing builder stares at you in horror, unsure whether you are a
human or a demon. Quickly, you hurry away. Turn to 250.
671
Out of gratitude the villagers present you with 80 Shards. You
do not wait around to see what fate befalls Old Megan and her
accomplices. In theory they should be taken to the assizes in the
nearest town, but feelings run so deep in this case that you
suspect there will be some rough justice meted out.
You resume your journey.
Follow the river north
turn to 576
Follow the river south
turn to 82
Head east into the countryside
turn to 278
Go west to the main road
turn to 558
672
‘My chest!’ yells Oliphard joyfully as you hand it over. Cross the
magic chest off your Adventure Sheet.
Oliphard thanks you and teaches you how to be a better
Mage. Gain 1 Rank and roll a die. The result is the number of
Stamina points you gain permanently. Also, don’t forget to
increase your Defence by 1 as a result of your gain in Rank.
When you are ready, turn to 656.
673
You are trekking across the aptly named Curstmoor. A great
rolling expanse of blasted heath stretches before you. Grey
clouds hang over a mournful, dirty-water coloured plain,
studded with rocky outcrops and low hills.
Roll one die.
Score 1 or 2 You are attacked by a wolf.
Wolf, COMBAT 3, Defence 5, Stamina 7
If you win, you get a wolf pelt
Score 3 or 4 Nothing happens
Score 5 or 6 You find 10 Shards on an old skeleton
When you are ready, you can go:

North across the country
East to the road
To Trefoille
To Marlock City
West towards the River Grimm

turn to 560
turn to 558
turn to 250
turn to 100
turn to 99

674
You realize from your magical studies that there is a safe path
through the pentacle. If you step off the correct symbols, drawn
on the ground, there is no telling what sorcerous trap you will
set off.
If you decide the whole thing is too dangerous, and leave,
turn to 47.
If you want to try the path to the sarcophagus, make a
THIEVERY roll at Difficulty 9.
Successful THIEVERY roll
turn to 606
turn to 661
Failed THIEVERY roll
675
You fall into the yawning blackness with a despairing cry. You
plummet like a stone through the air for what seems like an age.
You are engulfed in absolute darkness, and all you can hear is
the whistling of the wind past your ears.
Suddenly you shoot into bright sunlight, and land with an
almighty splash into the sea! Coughing and spluttering, you rise
to the surface. You are not far from a forested island, and you
swim for shore. A small settlement crowds the shore – it looks
like you have arrived at the Trading Post on the Isle of Druids.
Turn to 195.
676
You were given the message to take to the king by some spies in
Golnir. The king takes the coded missive. Cross it off your
Adventure Sheet. He hands it to one of his counsellors to read.
‘You have done well in bringing this to me. It is important,’
says the king.
You are rewarded with 200 Shards.
If you have the codeword Deliver, turn to 98 immediately. If
not, read on.
The king goes on, ‘However, I was hoping you had spoken
with General Beladai of the allied army by now – we need that
citadel. Now go. That is a Royal command!’
You leave, climbing down to the foothills of the mountains.
Turn to 474.
677
You were given the missive to take to the general by spies in
Golnir. He takes the coded missive and reads it. Cross it off
your Adventure Sheet.
‘Interesting. You have done well in bringing this to me,’ he
says. ‘I thank you, once more!’
He rewards you with 150 Shards.
When you are ready, you leave the palace. Turn to 100.
678
If you have the codeword Aspen, turn to 195. Otherwise read
on.
The journey through the trees proves as difficult as when
you first ventured into the Old Forest. Make a SCOUTING roll at
Difficulty 10.
Successful SCOUTING roll
turn to 679

The War-Torn Kingdom 65
Failed SCOUTING roll

turn to 36

679
The scent of the sea proves strongest in one direction. Following
your nose, you eventually break free of the trees and find
yourself on the coast. Turn to 128.
680
You are dead. If you have a resurrection deal, turn to the section
noted on your Adventure Sheet after first erasing your current
possessions, money, and any details on your Ship’s Manifest.
If you don’t have a resurrection arranged, this is the end and
you can only start afresh with a new character. First make sure to
erase all ticks, codewords, and Adventure Sheet details in all
your Fabled Lands books. You can begin at 1 in any of the books
of the series.
